# To Han
2011/9/10

红字为强调部分，最好能"见到英语知道意思和发音"，至于音标，只有靠自己了。有一些生词未划出。

 

See China in the Light of Her Development

　　Speech at the University of Cambridge

　　Wen Jiabao Premier of the State Council of the People\'s Republic of
China, 2 February 2009

council出现在必修五单词表P33单词

      关注缩写，如 PRC 课本上ESL ：English as a second language(P1)

CNN:Cable News Network (美国有线电视新闻网)(P3)

BBC：British Broadcasting Corporation （Corp.）(P8)

GDP(下文有):Gross Domestic Production GNP:Gross National Production

地理课本第二课的缩写你比我熟：RS GIS GPS

　　Vice Chancellor Alison Richard, Ladies and Gentlemen,

　　　　It gives me great pleasure to come to Cambridge, a
world-renowned university that I have long wanted to visit. Cambridge
has produced many great scientists and thinkers Isaac Newton, Charles
Darwin and Francis Bacon, to name but a few, and made important
contribution to the progress of human civilization. This year marks the
800th anniversary of the university. Please accept my warm
congratulations.

　　　　This is my fourth visit to your country. Despite the great
distance between China and Britain, the friendly exchanges between our
peoples have been on the rise. The successful resolution of the question
of Hong Kong and fruitful cooperation between our two countries in areas
such as economy, trade, culture, education, science and technology have
cemented the foundation of our comprehensive strategic partnership.
Here, I wish to pay high tribute to all those who have been working
tirelessly to promote friendly ties between our two countries.

　　The title of my speech today is \"See China in the Light of Her
Development\".

　　My beloved motherland is a country both old and young.

　　She is old, because she is a big Oriental country with a
civilization stretching back several thousand years. With diligence and
wisdom, the Chinese nation created a splendid civilization and made
significant contributions to the progress of humanity.

　　　She is young, because the People\'s Republic is just 60 years old,
and the country began reform and opening-up only 30 years ago. The
Chinese people established the New China after unremitting struggles and
ultimately found a development path suited to China\'s national
conditions through painstaking efforts. This is the path of socialism
with Chinese characteristics. Following this path, our ancient
civilization has been rejuvenated.

　　　　The key element of China\'s reform and opening-up is to free
people\'s mind and the most fundamental and significant component is
institutional innovation. Through economic reform, we have built a
socialist market economy, where the market plays a primary role in
allocating resources under government macro-regulation. We have carried
out political reform, promoted democracy and improved the legal system.
People are the masters of the country. We run the country according to
law and endeavor to build a socialist country under the rule of law.

     macro- micro- 是意思相反的前缀，后者如microwave oven　　　　The
essence of China\'s reform and opening-up is to put people first and
meet their ever growing material and cultural needs through releasing
and developing productive forces. It aims to give everyone equal
opportunities for all-round development. It aims to protect the
democratic rights of the people and promote stability, harmony and
prosperity across the land. And it aims to safeguard the dignity and
freedom of everyone so that he or she may pursue happiness with
ingenuity and hard work.

      上两段有很多有用的words：allocate release stability harmony
prosperity (v. prosper adj.  prosperous) democracy(adj.democratic)

　　Over the past three decades, more than 200 million Chinese have been
lifted(必修三第二篇主课文用的moved) out of poverty, the average life
expectancy has increased by 5 years, and the 83 million people with
disabilities in China have received special care from the government and
the society. All this points to the tremendous efforts China has made to
protect human rights. We have introduced free nine-year compulsory
education throughout the country, established the cooperative medical
system in the rural areas and improved the social safety net. The
age-old dream of the Chinese nation is being turned into reality a dream
to see the young educated, the sick treated and the old cared for.

    发现come true 的同义短语：turn into reality　　

　　I want to quote from a Tang Dynasty poem to describe what is
happening in China, \"From shore to shore it is wide at high tide, and
before fair wind a sail is lifting.\" The Chinese people are working
hard to modernize their country. This is a great practice in a large
developing country both ancient and new. The Chinese people, with
destiny in their own hands, are full of confidence in their future.

    -ize -ization 有种"...化"的意思 civilization civilise（v.）

    我命由我不由天：My destiny is in my hand ,not in God/Heaven.(自编)

 

　　My beloved motherland is a country that stood numerous vicissitudes
but never gave up.

　　　Earlier in my career, I worked in northwest China for many years.
There, in the boundless desert, grows a rare variety of tree called
euphrates poplar. Rooted over 50 meters down the ground, they thrive in
hostile environments, defying droughts, sandstorms and salinization.
They are known as the \"hero tree\", because a euphrates poplar can live
for a thousand years. Even after it dies, it stands upright for a
thousand years, and even after it falls, it stays intact for another
thousand years. I like euphrates poplar because they symbolize the
resilience of the Chinese nation.

       从意思上看 upright 和vertical(P14) 差不多，都是adj.

　　　　Over the millennia(课本上用过millennium), the Chinese nation has
weathered numerous disasters, both natural and man-made, surmounted all
kinds of difficulties and challenges, and made her way to where she
proudly stands today. The long sufferings have only made her a nation of
fortitude and perseverance. The experience of the Chinese nation attests
to a truth: what a nation loses in times of disaster will be made up for
by her progress.

　　　　I am reminded of the experience that I had in Wenchuan, Sichuan
Province after the devastating earthquake there last May. That
earthquake shocked the whole world. It flattened Beichuan Middle School
and claimed many young lives. But only 10 days after the earthquake,
when I went there for the second time, I had before my eyes new
classrooms built on debris by local villagers with planks. Once again,
the campus echoed with the sound of students reading aloud. I wrote down
4 Chinese characters on the blackboard, meaning \"A country will emerge
stronger from adversities.\" I have been to Wenchuan seven times since
the earthquake and witnessed countless touching scenes like this. I am
deeply moved by the unyielding （前面有个unremitting）spirit of my
people. This great national spirit is the source of strength which has
enabled the Chinese nation to emerge from all the hardships stronger
than before.   　　

adversity adversary（敌手）
有时候感到表示"人"的名词和事物的名词并不是很有规律：agent（代理人）
agency（P15）

　　With hard work over the past half century and more, China has
achieved great progress. Its total economic output is now one of the
largest in the world. However, we remain a developing country and we are
keenly aware of the big gap that we have with the developed countries.
There has been no fundamental change in our basic national condition: a
big population, weak economic foundation and uneven development.
China\'s per capita GDP ranks behind 100 countries in the world and is
only about 1/18 that of Britain. Those of you who have been to China as
tourists must have seen the modern cities, but our rural areas are still
quite backward.

   be keenly aware of  the big gap we have with...突然想起了 the

difficulty we have doing sth.

　　To basically achieve modernization by the middle of this century, we
must accomplish three major tasks: first, achieve industrialization,
which Europe has long completed, while keeping abreast of the latest
trends of the scientific and technological revolution; second, promote
economic growth while ensuring social equity and justice; and third,
pursue sustainable development at home while accepting our share of
international responsibilities. The journey ahead will be long and
arduous, but no amount of difficulty will stop the Chinese people from
marching forward. Through persistent efforts, we will reach our goal.

　　persistence的adj.是persistent

　　My beloved motherland is a country that values her traditions while
opening her arms to the outside world.

　　　　The traditional Chinese culture is rich, extensive and profound.
Harmony, the supreme value cherished in ancient China, lies at the heart
of the Chinese culture. The Book of History, an ancient classic in China
for example, advocates amity among people and friendly exchanges among
nations.

　　The Chinese cultural tradition values peace as the most precious.
This has nurtured the broad mind of the Chinese nation. The Chinese
nation is generous and tolerant, just as Mother Earth cares for all
living things. She is in constant pursuit of justice, just as the
eternal movement of the Universe.

　　tolerant是tolerance的adj. in pursuit of 和pursue 意思一样

　　In the 15th century, the famous Chinese navigator Zheng He led seven
maritime expeditions to the Western Seas and reached over 30 countries.
He took with him Chinese tea, silk and porcelain and helped local people
fight pirates as he sailed along. He was truly a messenger of love and
friendship.

      navigator 必修3杨利伟一课做领航员讲的。

　　　　The argument that a big power is bound to seek hegemony does not
apply to China. Seeking hegemony goes against China\'s cultural
tradition as well as the will of the Chinese people. China\'s
development harms no one and threatens no one. We shall be a
peace-loving country, a country that is eager to learn from and
cooperate with others. We are committed to building a harmonious world.

apply是第二单元重点单词，harmonious是harmony的adj. 有的adj.

prosperous 就没有i 真是麻烦。

　　　Different countries and nations need to respect, tolerate and
learn from each other\'s culture. Today, 300 million Chinese are
learning English and over one million of our young people are studying
abroad. The cultures and arts of various parts of the world are featured
daily on China\'s television, radio and print media. Had we not（=If we
had not） learned from others through exchanges and enriched ourselves
by drawing on others\' experience, we would not have enjoyed today\'s
prosperity and progress.

respect 第二单元当遵守讲，feature v占主要位置
很生僻，另外文中有不少生僻地不用电子词典查不到的单词如euphrates poplar
胡杨 ，第一个单词是幼发拉底河，很奇怪。

　　In the 21st century, economic globalization and the information
network have linked us all together. Different cultures live together
and influence each other. No culture can flourish in isolation. How much
a country or a nation contributes to the culture of humanity is
increasingly determined by her ability to absorb foreign cultures and
renew herself. That is why China will remain open and receptive, value
her own traditions while drawing on others\' successful experience, and
achieve economic prosperity and social progress in a civilized and
harmonious way.

thrive 和 flourish是同义词，eager和keen是同义词（不是本段的，文中有）

　　　Ladies and Gentlemen,

　　　I stress the importance of seeing China in the light of her
development, because the world is changing and China is changing. China
is no longer the closed and backward society it was 100 years ago, or
the poor and ossified society 30 years ago. Thanks to reform and
opening-up, China has taken on a new look. What the Beijing Olympic
Games showcased is a colorful China, both ancient and modern. I
therefore encourage you to visit China more often and see more places
there. This way, you will better understand what the Chinese people are
thinking and doing, and what they are interested in. You will get to
know the true China, a country constantly developing and changing. You
will also better appreciate（理解） how China has been tackling the
ongoing global financial crisis.

tackle 要将原型分离出来再查。

　　　This unprecedented financial crisis has inflicted a severe impact
on both China and Britain as well as other European countries. The
crisis has not yet hit the bottom, and it is hard to predict what
further damage it may cause. To work together and tide over the
difficulties has become our top priority.

　　　I believe that closer cooperation is needed to meet the global
crisis, and the level of cooperation hinges upon the level of mutual
trust. The Chinese Government maintains that countries should: first and
foremost, run their own affairs well and refrain from shifting troubles
onto others; second, carry out cooperation with full sincerity and avoid
pursuing one\'s own interests at the expense of others; and third,
address（从事于） both the symptoms and the root cause of the problem. A
palliative（保守疗法） approach will not work. We should not treat only
the head when the head aches, and the foot when the foot hurts. As I
reiterated at the World Economic Forum Annual Meeting in
Davos（达沃斯）, necessary reform of the international monetary and
financial systems should be carried out to establish a new international
financial order that is fair,  , inclusive and well-managed. We should
create an institutional environment conducive to global economic growth.

　　Let me talk briefly about how China has been responding to the
crisis.

课本P18有in responce to ,这里是respond to

 

　　The fallout（后果） of the financial crisis on China\'s real economy
is becoming more evident. Since the third quarter of last year, our
exports have declined sharply, economic growth has slowed down, and the
pressure on employment has been rising. In the face of the grim
situation, we have acted decisively. We have made timely adjustment to
the direction of our macroeconomic policy, promptly introduced ten
measures to expand domestic demand, and formulated a series of related
policies. Together, they make up a systematic and comprehensive package
plan aimed at promoting steady and relatively fast economic growth. Its
main contents are:

export 的OPP是 import 记一下：opposite 反义词 synonym
（SYN）近义词。下面4段就是我以前提到的生词很多的最难的部分了。

　　　　First, substantially increase government spending to boost
domestic （GDP中的D）demand. The Chinese Government has announced a
two-year investment program that will generate, through fiscal spending,
a total investment of RMB 4 trillion nationwide, equivalent to 16% of
China\'s GDP in 2007. The money will mainly go into
government-subsidized housing, projects related to the well-being
（well-off，幸福的）of rural residents, the construction of railway and
other infrastructural （基础设施的）projects, social development
programs, environmental protection and post-earthquake recovery and
reconstruction. The Chinese Government has introduced a massive tax-cut
program, which will reduce the tax burdens on businesses and individuals
by about RMB 500 billion each year. We have also cut interest
rates（利率） by a large margin（幅度）, increased liquidity in the
banking system and adopted a range of financial measures.

post作为前缀，有"...后"的意思，tax 课本P17 Everyday English 3 有

　　　　Second, implement a large-scale industrial restructuring and
rejuvenation program. We are pushing forward industrial restructuring
and upgrading across the board(大范围) and formulating plans for the
restructuring and revitalization of ten key industries, including
automobiles and iron and steel. We will take economic and technological
measures to boost energy conservation and reduce emissions, and promote
merger and reorganization of enterprises to raise the level of industry
concentration and the efficiency of resource
allocation（allocate的名词）. We encourage and support the extensive
application of new technologies, techniques, equipment and materials and
the development of marketable products by enterprises（企业经营）.

restructure v. 重建 重组 upgrade v.提升 formulate v.制定

　　　　Third, make energetic efforts for progress and innovation in
science and technology. Science and technology are of fundamental
importance in overcoming the financial crisis. A major crisis is usually
followed by a revolution in science and technology, and no economic
recovery is possible without technological innovation. We are stepping
up the implementation（impement的名词） of the National Program for
Medium- and Long-Term Scientific and Technological Development, with
special emphasis on 16 major projects including core electronic devices,
development and use of nuclear energy and advanced numerically
controlled machine tools.
（汉语词典说机床是制造其他机器的机器，很形象）We will strive to make
breakthroughs in a host of core technologies and key generic
technologies to support sustainable economic growth at a higher level.
We will promote the development of high-tech industrial clusters and
cultivate new economic growth areas. All in all, we will rely on major
breakthroughs in science and technology to foster new social demand and
bring about a new round of economic boom.

　　　Fourth, significantly raise the level of social security. We will
continue to increase basic pension for enterprise retirees
（退休人员）and upgrade the standard of unemployment insurance and
workers\' compensation. We will raise the level of basic cost of living
allowances in both urban and rural areas and welfare allowances for
those rural residents without family support. We are advancing the
reform of the medical and health system and working to put in place a
nationwide basic medical and health system covering both urban and rural
areas within three years and achieve the goal of everyone having
access（权利，机会，commitment 义务） to basic medical and health
service. We give priority（优先权，文中有时一词多义，enterprise就是） to
education and are now working on the Guidelines of the National Program
for Medium- and Long-Term Educational Reform and Development. We are
following a more active employment policy with special emphasis on
helping college graduates and migrant workers find jobs. We are
endeavoring to create more jobs and lessen the impact of the financial
crisis on employment. The aforementioned measures will help us boost
domestic demand, readjust and reinvigorate industries, enhance the
support of science and technology and strengthen social security all at
the same time. They will stimulate consumption through increased
investment, drive economic growth while improving people\'s livelihood
and creating more jobs, and see us through current difficulties while
also improving the long-term prospect of the Chinese economy. They will
not only benefit China\'s development, but also bring enormous business
opportunities to other countries, Britain included.

　　This once-in-a-century financial crisis is truly thought-provoking.
It reminds us of the need to have serious reflections on the existing
economic systems and theories.

　　　For many years in the past, China practiced a highly centralized
planned economy and regarded planning as being absolute（绝对的）. This
hampered the development of productivity. The ongoing financial crisis
has made it clear to us, however, that the market is not a cure-all,
either. A totally laissez-faire （自由放任的）approach will inevitably
lead to economic disorder and unfair social
distribution（下几行有distribute）, and will eventually take its
toll（造成损失）. A credible market-oriented reform should never set the
market against government macro-regulation. The invisible hand of the
market and the visible hand of government and social supervision should
both act, and act vigorously. Only in this way can resources be
distributed according to market rules and distributed in a reasonable,
coordinated, balanced and sustainable manner.

　　The international financial crisis once again shows how dangerous a
market economy without regulation can be. Since the 1990s, some
profit-driven financial institutions in economies lacking effective
regulation have raised massive capital （资本）with a leverage of dozens
of times（倍）. While they reaped huge profits, the world was exposed to
enormous risks. This fully demonstrates that a totally unregulated
market economy cannot work. We must strike a balance between financial
innovation and regulation, between the financial sector（部门）and real
economy, and between savings and consumption.

　　　　To effectively meet the crisis, we must fully recognize the role
of morality（adj. moral）. Nothing is greater than morality. It shines
even more brightly than the sun. True economic theories will never come
into conflict with the highest moral and ethical standards. Instead,
they should stand for justice and integrity, and contribute in an equal
way to the well-being of all people, including the most vulnerable ones.
Adam Smith, known as the father of modern economics, held the view in
The Theory of Moral Sentiments that if the fruits of a society\'s
economic development cannot be shared by all, it is morally
unsound(不健全的) and risky, as it is bound to jeopardize social
stability. The loss of morality is an underlying（根本的） cause for the
current crisis. Some people have sacrificed principle and sought profits
at the expense of public interests. They have crossed the moral
baseline. We should call on all enterprises to take up their social
responsibilities. Within the body of every businessman should flow the
blood of morality.

　　Ladies and Gentlemen,

　　　　Britain is the last leg of my European trip. I have gained a
deeper understanding of Europe through this visit. China-EU cooperation
is now standing at a new historical starting point and I am all the more
confident about the China-EU comprehensive strategic partnership. There
are no outstanding（未解决的） issues （问题）left over from history or
conflict of fundamental interests between the two sides. What we have is
a solid foundation and a bright future for cooperation. As the first
industrialized country, Britain has accumulated rich experience in
economic development and environmental protection. We hope to learn from
your experience and strengthen exchanges and cooperation with you.

　　　The future belongs to the younger generation. It is incumbent upon
you to build an even more splendid future of China-Britain relations.
Here and now, I cannot but mention Dr. Joseph Needham, a Cambridge
alumnus who made important contribution to cultural exchanges between
China and Britain. With his monumental masterpiece（杰作）, Science and
Civilization in China（《中国科学史》政治书提到过）, he built a bridge
between the two great civilizations of East and West. To honor tradition
and innovation is the outstanding（优秀的） character of Cambridge. I
hope more of you will turn your eyes to China, see my country in the
light of her development, and act as ambassadors（大使） of
China-Britain friendship. I believe that as long as you, the young
people of China and Britain learn from each other and strive for
progress hand in hand, you will add a brilliant new chapter to the
annals of our relations.

　　Thank you!

     
文章太长，仍有不太懂的长句，连续读下来就不容易了，我太关注生词了，但在课内的忙碌中，经过这一次检验，发现还是忘了不少。文中许多习惯的搭配也是可以关注一下的，关于我对这篇文章的研读过程，下封信会做以说明。


先从暑假说起，今天上午1、2节课去了5楼，又聆听李老师对社会的批判长达1课时，the
content was so negative that I\'d better omit it at present.

不过他提到了语文作文的事，还是和改"非恐慌，不生活"的思路一样，墨守成规的没有高分。而大本分都是墨守成规，包括我。其实我本以为自己语文作文是所有考试中最令自己满意的，但由于指导思想错了，华丽的语言与空泛的议论也就变了味，分数自然不高。

   
为什么作文最令我满意呢？还是和暑假有关。学数论学艺不精，先哲们倒是如数家珍，这就好比你无意中记住二胡领域的前辈一样，关于数学家，他们既没有物理学家的"幸运"，欧姆，法拉，库伦...也不如作家的名字那样深入人心，只有专业人士
才能以孤独的心灵穿越时代找他们谈话。无论人们关注有否，数论研究者的名字始终是银河中熠熠生辉的星星：欧拉，费马，拉格朗日，伯努利......他们很多在数学的其他领域贡献也是很大。

    
这和语文关系不大。实际上，暑假最后20天里，语文我只做了2件事，古文和宋词，前者似乎就只要一个大概印象似的，在翻译的帮助下浏览完了残缺版《古文观止》和《史记》很少一部分内容，然而每天竟花去2h。是不是古人喜欢替别人写序文啊：梅圣俞（梅尧臣，诗人）死了，欧阳修收集他的诗，并写序；苏舜钦（苏子美，诗人）死了，欧阳修收集他的文，并写序。这是我看过的两篇，恰好又考了"范希文（范仲淹，政治家）死了，苏轼为《范文正公集》写序。"没大看懂，但哀悼和敬仰的感情在死后的序中大概是共通的。

    
宋词，暑假初看了看《花间词》，一种类型中还是有很多优美的句子。宋词大都关注作者生平，除了多认识词人和他们的大概经历外，鉴赏能力没有什么改观。家喻户晓的不提外，有：温庭筠，周邦彦，秦观，吴文英，晏几道......喜欢两个字称呼他们：飞卿，美成，淮海，梦窗，小山......

    
数学一直都很失败，数论（每天2h）没能坚持下来，平几有时候因中午睡过头也打破连续性，但一到学极坐标和参数方程（4-4？），就觉得很顺利，看来竞赛题和基础知识的差距，就是看不懂和一做就对的高下了。

     英语1/3给了《See China in the light of her development
》,20天的成果就是通一遍文章，查不认识的生词（有没查到的），抄一遍文章，但最后整理生词工作没做完（就8月31日下午了），所以后半段单词感到陌生。

     2/3给了《Jane
Eyre》（每天2h），然而只看了200页左右而已。英语有相当的时间在翻字典中度过，但我没感到查词速度有什么进步，但阅读题只要生词不是一堆（比如非学第一单元测试题aerospace
A篇就不太懂）能差不多看懂，只是看懂≠做对题目，很无奈。

    
20天暑假就这样过去了，开学后就停止所有课外的拓展，所以也忘的差不多了。正式上课的一周，是波澜不惊的一周，事情都很琐碎。如尖子生搬了宿舍，开展熬夜学习的竞赛（6班），而5班的一个看小说，一个长时间失眠。第一节体育课乘兴而来，回去的时候我被踢伤了脚，程维政被砸了眼，还有四肢不听使唤的同学。5班换位，9成男生做后排，个别男生坐前排，其中我和孙中凯被安排在距前门最近的位置，王维佳被安排在距后门第二近的位置，当然是指6班，因为我一天见他坐那儿N次。一天晚上天热，灯上聚满了飞虫，像下雨般掉在我桌上，2节课写字都艰难，书弄得很脏。------虫儿啊，你被灯烧的半死不活地，为什么还要掉下来打扰你的朋友呢？

     较有连贯性的一事发生在昨天，但没有结尾。

     上午大课间，有人找我，我潜意识里认为是女生，第6感想到王涵。

但是高三的黄冬瑜（？），手里拿着白纸（吗），我暗中认为该不会是下午找我发言吧，通知的也太迟了吧。原来是私事，她问我大学数学课本的事起先令我感到迷惑，原来她是为数学竞赛做准备。我答应她下午带来一些资料，她又问到一个我恰好会的数学课题（如下午黄演讲家言，我表面不动声色，内心狂喜），关键词是：特征方程，斐波那契数列，递推公式。

我也把此事推到下午，毕竟这不是1 2句话可以说清的问题，付诸纸笔更好。

很巧的是，中午放学我们又碰见了，在潜意识的支配下我做出了"再见，你先走"的动作，她感到很尴尬，我明白她的意图后，也是如此。她还是问到大课间的问题，可我还是说不清，就紧紧抓住下午这根救命稻草。然而还是有一个细节，她被问到暑假准备时，只是叹气。初赛在即，而自己竞赛内容一点没"复习（学习）"的感觉，和开学考物理前很多文科生感受也差不多吧。

     
下午开大会，她又通过6班（？）给了我3道题，我当即认为很难做，立即发动程维政开动大脑机器（后来发动孙中凯）。很快到表彰同学环节，我大概知道黄冬瑜作为前20
总体并不是很优秀。恰好在后台又遇到她，这次我是简单写了写推导的思路，没有坚实的下垫面，字母歪歪扭扭。其实自己又知道什么呢？只会程序化的数学而已。后来我用四则运算强行做了第一题，待定系数第二题，孙子定理的公式解第三题。好歹是都算出结果来，但清华学生演讲是不太留意的，以致不知道自己又该按他讲的哪一点前行。

     
本来约定眼保健扫后她来找我借资料，事出有因后来一直未能遇到。仿佛这只是三次美丽的邂逅然后擦肩而过，一个遥远的传说也无法取代忙碌的生活，我对自己尘封2周的数学竞赛的反思最终也无可奈何。