# To Han
2011/9/25

cold rain:

  This is my first attempt to write a letter in English.Of course there
will be some mistakes ,but I hope that you can understand it.

 

   Life was still in this week,but I\'d like to say about extra courses
of top students,not just Senior High 2 .On Saturday morining after
reading, I，with Chen Weizheng，went to a new classroom on the fourth
floor,besides which there was a secret class!

   25 students ,more or less,were buried in books ,through the opened
door I saw the scene.Huang Dongyu ,among those students,was the only one
I had known.Later on,I gave her something about math that I had promised
.In fact ,there was no romance .There was only hard work.\"They stay up
late every day till 11:30 as the lights don\'t go out.\"Cheng Weizheng
said to me.I was astonished .

   Senior High 2 ,Class 6 ,is usual,diligent enough all the time.

   Below I want to quote some sentences about Love ,which  are probably
meaningful.

   It hurts to love someone and not be loved in return,but what is more
painful is to love someone and never find the courage to let the person
know how you feel.

   Maybe God wants us to meet a few wrong people before meeting the
right one so that when we finally meet the right person,we will know how
to be grateful for that gift.  

   Love is when you take away the feeling,the passion and the romance in
a relationship and find out you still care for (means like) that person.

    A sad thing in life is when you meet someone who means a lot to
you(make a difference to you) ,you only to find out in the end that it
was never meant to be (cause results) and you just have to let him go.

    When the door of happiness closes ,another opens ,but oftentimes we
look so long at the closed door that we don\'t see the one which has
been open for us.

     It\'s true that we don\'t know what we\'ve got until we lose it,but
it\'s also true that we don\'t know what we\'ve been missing until it
arrives(we have it).

     Giving someone all your love is never an assurance (promise)

that they\'ll love you back! Don\'t expect love in return ,just wait for
it to grow in their heart but if it doesn\'t ,be content (pleased) it
grew in yours.

     There are things you\'d love to hear from the person whom you would
never hear ,but don\'t be so deaf to hear it from the one who says it
from his heart.

     Never say goodbye if you still want to try.

     Never give up if you still feel you go on.

     Never say you don\'t love a person any more if you can\'t let him
go.

     Love comes to those who still hope but although they\'ve been
disappointed ;to those who still believe ,although they \'ve been
betrayed ;to those who still need love ,although they\'ve been hurt
before,and to those who have courage and faith to build trust again.

      It takes only a minute to get a crush on someone (fall in love
with someone at first sight),an hour to like someone and a day to love
someone---but it takes a lifetime to forget someone.

      Don\'t go for (be attracted)looks ;

they can deceive (cheat).Don\'t go for wealth,eventually that fades
away(disappear).Go for someone who makes you smile because it takes only
a smile to make a dark day seem bright.

      That\'s all.

      Yours

9.25