# About Complex Analysis

the highest level among all similar courses, it was indeed a fascinating journey not because the professor says so but because it can solve the classical geometrical problems with beautiful approach. Today I did a coursework requiring the proof of Ptolemy’s theorem (which claims the sufficient and necessary conditions whenever four points lie in a circle.) The theorem was proved by the application of cross ratio—a neat representation of linear fractional transformation, just like the equation form of a two-dimensional plane in space by the coordinates of three points. I can never forget my repeated readings of the elementary proof of this theorem, using the knowledge of similar triangles twice with the help of a supplementary line. (The function of this supplementary line is to construct two similar triangles simultaneously. It was amazing that I can still remember the details of this proof and can finish it without reference even now.) Then I wondered how such accumulations remained. In fact, such knowledge (Proof of Ptolemy’s theorem) is never important in our current educational system. It was marginalized even if it was a good example to demonstrate the power of similar triangles. But maybe because of the difficulty to identifying the position of the crucial supplementary line and because pure plane geometry is too difficult for general students to enter, this theorem, along with others were permanently reserved in the museum. At times it would be visited by odd persons. But among these visitors, only a few can manage to know the cause and effect of some theorems.

But can we then say such knowledge is unimportant because they are never edited into orthodox textbooks of both elementary and advanced mathematics? Then it came to a parallel of such problem. Along the development of electromagnetism in the late 19th century, a branch called field theory in mathematics or physics developed rapidly. Indeed our usage of gradient, divergence and curl are best illustrated by the physical vector in electromagnetism. But because this illustration involves complex symbol computation in three-dimensional space, it was difficult for general students to get through. And I gradually found the importance to remember some frequently used computational rules, just like our tortures to master trigonometry (We memorize many rules). We can often heard the saying that such vector computation is hard to manipulate and just like the case in plane geometry, they became dead knowledge and had already been replaced by more human approach. But I also know that in the area of ideology, there were no real dead ideologies. As long as the time is ripen, claimed dead ideology will come to life. But they were not the old one in some sense. They will be used to fulfill other missions.

From such analogy I came to my personal conclusion, I felt faintly that even in the region of science there were also no real dead theory and systems. History theories can help me stand up for my such claim. But here I would only want to add two important imagined steps for the possibility of using “dead scientific theory”, one is my own re-construction of this theory, with as little reference as possible. We can find numerous examples from our professors in teaching basic courses. They all re-construct something.  And this re-construction should leave some neat prints in reality. They will be convenient to look up for by oneself. (and maybe one day will be published,) The second step is analogy—by such step making this theory not always asleep in one’s memory. My whim is as above. Receive your criticism.        
