# To Denny
You sent me a short message through e-mail, complaining my incomprehension of the importance social communication. Your interpretation of current society is very plausible. It is not a time to produce “thinker” in either the Axial Age or hundreds of years after Renaissance in Europe. One vital hindrance (even regardless of time requirement) is the specialization of intellectuals. Yesterday one of our department leaders gave a thought-provoking speech, prohibiting us from imbuing too much time on major-irrelevant things. He summaries the characteristics of current society in two concise sentences: To success you must own major-license,—that is publishing thesis on internationally famous journals. Secondly, 马太效应， which means your words count in various fields even if you are not an expert in them, as long as you become top-intellectuals in one field. He admitted the rule of society is sometimes cruelly conducting itself. Some “folk mathematicians” once asked his help in justifying the academic value of their products. And they were all rejected cruelly without any exemption. This kind of phenomenon proved the iron law of current society, especially among academic fields. In conclusion you have no right to say three or tell four in one field unless you get the “license”. If you violate this iron law, no one will listen to your nonsense and more badly, no intellectuals will sympathize with you (though the media probably will use you to attract dozens more eyes).

At this point, I think of one famous old student in our university, who was once introduced ceremoniously by 清新时报. Roughly speaking, he was not intelligent enough so that he passed many years studying for exams. At last our college leader was moved by his persistence and allowed him to become an auditor in our college. It was reported that he studied very hard and listened to various courses of multiple disciplines (maybe just like me in the past year). On the surface, people surround him pay high respect to his spirit. But at least the speaker (yesterday) of my department will never agree with such “waste of mind”. And the same thing can be paralleled on my head. And it seemed to produce two serious results for me: (1) my mathematical grounds are not solid enough; (2) I gradually lost the gold time and willing to discuss mathematical questions with peers on equal level.

There was a terminology called, 路径依赖，which means you (man) tend to do things as you do in the past (for example, your unusual silence at English listening class). And to break such dependence is both hard and painful. And honestly speaking, I have not made any positive attempt to solve problems (1) and (2) because I still reply heavily on what I did before (for example, I can not resist writing something to others.)

For some outsiders, it is indeed absurd to make yourself exhausted in things unrelated to your major. In their views, the specialty is quite beneficial: you only need to learn a kind of skills and then you can enjoy millions of products brought about by others. If you spend more time on familiarizing with this skill you chose to learn two years ago, you can have more choice space among these millions of products in the future. And if you spend a little more time enlarging your friends circle, and know their specialty, then you can ask their help without knowing the interior mechanism of the fulfillment of your tough matters. These three points are quite persuasive even we neglect the sensational factor. And the mortal attack on my type is that you can not spread your combination of knowledge to others since you lack of the communication skills. Thus unless you collaborate 叱咤学生会般的人物, you can never make effective propaganda. But sadly, such collaboration is a small probability event.

At this point, I am unable to retort the above opinions. And since midnight is approaching, I will finish this short essay here. But I will append another essay to show my shallow attempt to combine knowledge. One type of computer game...

It is well known 柳志宇 chose the path similar to 李叔同。Perhaps our criticism was based on the assumption that mathematics is more advanced and progressive than Buddhism. Though I knew little about Classics of every kind of religion, it seemed that they shared strong kind of requirement on everyday behavior of the “disciple”. All I can do is considering the case in Confucianism, in which “天理” and “人欲” were still accepted by a few people today. At least, those read too much and too detailed about 朱子 (for example ,researchers) will be influenced by his “academic” thoughts more or less. Two core issues in every kind of schooling are “violence (war)” and “love (sex between male and female)”. It seemed that in every ages there would only be a small amount of people who seemed to surpass (or suppress) these two normal feelings---they were absolutely polite, “动容周旋中礼”in words of Confucianism, instead of appealing to violence. They answered firmly to the question, “色与礼孰重” without hesitation. But most people, regardless of classes in society, submitted to violence and love occasionally. Thus “红颜祸水”is a warning to ancient Chinese emperors, the set of which made the same “mistakes” continuously for more than two thousand years. Thus “孙子兵法” is popular for more than two thousand years. It is even useless to set the “theory” containing “动容周旋中礼”as official dogma in Ming and Qing dynasty. Most examinees learned this dogma as a tool to seek their own fortunes or at least “degenerated” as they got their fortunes. Only a small strange and annoying persons injected this dogma into their bones and stuck to it, 死而后已。

In our times, probably forms change while essence remains. On the one hand, official dogma is widely accepted within China. Most of these people, like my parents, do not reach to the level of “Martyr” but at least many of their political and social ideas are rigidly formed by this dogma. On the other hand, small amounts of young people prefer so-called western civilization. Foreign movies are the hottest. And most popular movies can not escape the range of fascinating scenes of love and violence. But here I intend to further my discussion in the range of computer games, in which I was seized a few years ago. Hence I had enough evidences to analyze the two issues in a popular game genre, 游侠。

There is no necessity to make any concrete reference in this genre. If, as a person who only want to experience, he can play any one of this genre as a try. But I think one time of experience of playing such genre in his life is enough and every characteristics of this genre can be summarized without any difficulty. It seemed a principle in recreation culture that all the details were only used to serve to express the fullness of the main topic. (Multiple details are essential to attract people; That is probably why scientific books are sold badly because they only contained research objects.)  And although the production is of high complex, synthesizing many disciplines, for players he never needs any scientific or logical thoughts during the process of playing. Notice that this process is quite different from learning knowledge, though you could appreciate many details in this process of playing. It is natural for students to wonder why orthodox learning process tends boring while playing tends fascinating. Probably it is equivalent to answer why every generation of human beings have to confront the issues of love and violence. As for the genre of 游侠, the ideology is totally Daoism (Notice this! And for players, I thought the influence is potential, such that they could not accept the modern cosmology as a “unique”, most advanced and scientific doctrine. But for most people, this difference has no influence when it comes to whether he can live well in reality. To live well in reality we should compromise with official dogma. For example, Copernicus, the famous Italian astronomer, dared not publish his new theory until his death, for fear that he would thus be persecuted by the Church.

The same can be said about Darwin, who also had many considerations before his masterpiece The Origin of Life was published.) But to design a fascinating game, Daoism is never enough. We need many traditional disciplines, such as Chinese medicine, 铸冶，城市，地理（方輿）… are needed. Thus an “absurd” thing happened! Some advanced players for one particular game of this genre, gathered at a place called online forum, and created sub-cultural products around the “touching” game. Thus we have music, literature and photography, all around one particular game.  As for myself, for many years in my past, I was obsessed with one game called 仙剑奇侠传. The last stage for me to touch this series was the time when I was once attracted by one online literary adaptation of its plot at Senior One (Notice this time period!)  At that time, though I totally stopped playing games, its sub-influence is continuing. I still believe the plot described by one particular game of 游侠 (and I appreciate it very much at that time). Hence I read many literary compositions (often combined with pictures which were 游戏截图plus 后期制作) around this game. And my motivation of learning more about computer is mainly inspired from the desire of knowing something about the interior mechanism of this game. And I have to say, the view of love in this game series has great influence on my past realistic behavior (and very probably it still functioned on me without my realization). Only in the past several months I was trying to cleanse all its residual poison (but it seemed impossible to totally exclude this spiritual affect after its so many years’ actions on me). At our university, once I found books of仙剑奇侠传 were occupying shelves of my one roommate. Maybe it is astonished that online game stretches its claw into realistic cultural products. One of the most mature form is the whole retelling of this game in literature, belonging to 玄幻 genre. 爱乌及乌, is the inevitable rule both in traditional Chinese politics and in this game. But the essence involves the heroine. If you “loved” the heroine in this game, you loved her words, her abilities and her image as  搜狗 skin (once I did so)! (it was said many 实体手工艺品 related to this series sold very well.)

Subtopics around such game are endless but can not escape two core elements mentioned above: love and violence. And it was worthwhile to evaluate such benefit brought by computer science. When I was at home alone at the age of a teenager, I often played such game stealthily. No sooner my parents opened the door than I switched off the power socket of the computer. But I cannot cover one fact---the temperature of the computer. This is essential. It is well known that computer must disperse heat when works and we were taught by the second law of thermodynamic the microscopic mechanism of it. Similar things can be said about the two elements. To simplify the question, we consider one person facing another person(often his peer) or facing a monster. In former case love happens and in latter case is the violence. Neither can not be accomplished singly, and single state is lowest in the magnitude of “entropy”. Hence he must seek another in the vast world. Occasionally he will meet a monster or an evil person, who he dislikes. Then collision happens. Heat disperses. Or he might meet a person he likes, who he calls a companion. But acting as a whole, they as companions need unifying at many aspects, for example, the route and the pace of movement(state of更有序)). To achieve all these purposes, chemical energy is consumed and entropy increases. But in either case above, the subjective feelings are more satisfied than moving alone. If we admitted the principle in thermodynamics can be extended as basic assumption in human behavior (that is, we assume entropy exists in human and it has natural tendency to increase), then we will deduce the cause and effect of game playing. From my own experience, I knew that I often could not resist playing such game when alone at home. This is the starting point in which the entropy is lowest. Then I must seek some exciting thing to do, thus increasing the entropy in myself. But the biological rule determined that the increasing process will gradually be saturated as time goes on in playing games. But often I find difficult to stop because abruption will lower the entropy suddenly to its starting point and sudden or not continuous change is most unsuitable for us. In this process, love and violence are two main factors which increase the entropy. Its mechanism needs further study.

I must speak of nonsense above. Indeed, traditionally we can never imagine there can exist science to find the cause of human behavior. We explain improper behaviors simply as “荒亡之行”（孟子曰，从兽无厌谓之荒，乐酒无厌谓之亡. Notice that we do not have computer games to play in ancient times.）and despised it without further investigation.

(But at our times there were several disciplines gave scientific explanations. Although I knew nothing about these disciplines, at least I knew they exist. Hence I have the possibility to analyze as above. To a large extent, my thoughts were never invented by myself but determined by my era.)
 
             
