# Embarrassment of Science
## Talk about 教化

I reread the keynote answer to my question about the choice made by 寒春. Scientific research is also a social activity. But except for those direct influences on the material life of ourselves brought about by scientific progress, do you think we really change fundamentally in mind? Below is my shallow observations and thoughts during my short absence from the intellectual center. 

Compared to starting from large topic which had little direct relation to us students, all the three subdivisions talk about objects which we are very familiar with. 

## (1) Typical Exams
As I can remember, the first topic at 求是基层组 I attended more than a year ago is about education as a social problem. Suddenly an aphorism came to me: “有志者事竟成破釜沉舟百二秦关终属楚，苦心人天不负卧薪尝胆三千越甲可吞吴”。This aphorism was highly quoted to encourage examinees to work hard. Somehow they prepare a small-sized notebook to collect all these encouraging aphorisms, thus pushing themselves to stick to “learning” even though they are tired. Such is definitely what I conducted before CEE. It is also interesting to note that examinees often contradict internal dream with external temptation. And the ranges of “dream” and “temptation” are very limited. In their simple thoughts of correspondence, every aphorism of encouragement, regardless of its origin, its discipline and its language environment, can be borrowed to encourage themselves. On the other hand, every kind of computer games, love affairs, and even all things unrelated with “dream” must be damned and tagged onto the pillar of shame. Such thinking mode is very suitable to deal with exams and can be applied to every kind of exams, regardless of discipline, scale and importance. And “all is well if the end if well”, they celebrate their success or draw experience from the failure and sail off time and again. And such is life. More accurately, such is the middle part of life for “读书人”.

Maybe it was never typical in our university. But when I entered into the municipal library one day, what I saw testified what I heard before, “逢进必考”, so common. My father failed at the “国家司法考试”last October; my mother passed the “经济师资格考试”; and students younger than me were burying their heads at the library; while students older than me occasionally played with their cell phones at the library. The authoritative counseling book for the preparation of “山东省教师资格” is selling in the front of the biggest bookstore in the municipality over my town. And I suddenly found the total amount of counseling books I bought before college education occupied several shelves in my home.

Then by science education and all the other influences at our university my perspective changed. First is discipline awareness; then is sub-discipline, or orientation; then branches again…Such treatment is essential to make the knowledge we get deeper and the logic we form more reasonable. Thus facing all these social phenomena one can never exhaust every aspect and should concentrate on one or two perspective which he is familiar with. By the approach of division and acceptance of world views behind these divisions, I find treating something as a whole more and more absurd. Taking the famous aphorism “破釜沉舟…” for example. Now we live in a time of peace and everything about military is imagined in our minds. Furthermore, these two famous wars in the example were belonging to the time before Christ. How can we identify the encouragement of battlefield to the newly-born word, “考场”? Is it reasonable to suppose the existence of life-or-death question from the often-used analogy between 考场 and battlefield? On the other hand, the two figures (项羽 and 勾践) failed completely soon after their apogees. So my question is, do we expect the same outcome by the analogy made between these heroes and ourselves？Indeed when I analyze in the preceding way, I am standing as a total outsider, and extend the methodology of western science. Most probably, almost all the other in the municipal library are so habituated to their exam-oriented lifestyle that they would dispel me if I pointed out their “absurdity” and they think me strange, intolerable and crazy. Similarly, those living in remote mountainous areas maybe live happy and they do not need modern science and technology to disturb them. But as outsider we think they are too backward and disrupt them by the introduction of our modern life devices.” Indeed, we are more advanced. However, we seem to confront more problems, either in the case of division or in the case of modern life devices. But I wonder, how can people from quite different living environment communicate with each other? Is it doomed that people can only gather with similar ones?

## (2) One type of computer game
It is well known 柳志宇 chose the path similar to 李叔同。Perhaps our criticism was based on the assumption that mathematics is more advanced and progressive than Buddhism. Though I knew little about Classics of every kind of religion, it seemed that they shared strong kind of requirement on everyday behavior of the “disciple”. All I can do is considering the case in Confucianism, in which “天理” and “人欲” were still accepted by a few people today. At least, those read too much and too detailed about 朱子 (for example ,researchers) will be influenced by his “academic” thoughts more or less. Two core issues in every kind of schooling are “violence (war)” and “love (sex between male and female)”. It seemed that in every ages there would only be a small amount of people who seemed to surpass (or suppress) these two normal feelings---they were absolutely polite, “动容周旋中礼”in words of Confucianism, instead of appealing to violence. They answered firmly to the question, “色与礼孰重” without hesitation. But most people, regardless of classes in society, submitted to violence and love occasionally. Thus “红颜祸水”is a warning to ancient Chinese emperors, the set of which made the same “mistakes” continuously for more than two thousand years. Thus “孙子兵法” is popular for more than two thousand years. It is even useless to set the “theory” containing “动容周旋中礼”as official dogma in Ming and Qing dynasty. Most examinees learned this dogma as a tool to seek their own fortunes or at least “degenerated” as they got their fortunes. Only a small strange and annoying persons injected this dogma into their bones and stuck to it, 死而后已。

In our times, probably forms change while essence remains. On the one hand, official dogma is widely accepted within China. Most of these people, like my parents, do not reach to the level of “Martyr” but at least many of their political and social ideas are rigidly formed by this dogma. On the other hand, small amounts of young people prefer so-called western civilization. Foreign movies are the hottest. And most popular movies can not escape the range of fascinating scenes of love and violence. But here I intend to further my discussion in the range of computer games, in which I was seized a few years ago. Hence I had enough evidences to analyze the two issues in a popular game genre, 游侠。

There is no necessity to make any concrete reference in this genre. If, as a person who only want to experience, he can play any one of this genre as a try. But I think one time of experience of playing such genre in his life is enough and every characteristics of this genre can be summarized without any difficulty. It seemed a principle in recreation culture that all the details were only used to serve to express the fullness of the main topic. (Multiple details are essential to attract people; That is probably why scientific books are sold badly because they only contained research objects.)  And although the production is of high complex, synthesizing many disciplines, for players he never needs any scientific or logical thoughts during the process of playing. Notice that this process is quite different from learning knowledge, though you could appreciate many details in this process of playing. It is natural for students to wonder why orthodox learning process tends boring while playing tends fascinating. Probably it is equivalent to answer why every generation of human beings have to confront the issues of love and violence. As for the genre of 游侠, the ideology is totally Daoism (Notice this! And for players, I thought the influence is potential, such that they could not accept the modern cosmology as a “unique”, most advanced and scientific doctrine. But for most people, this difference has no influence when it comes to whether he can live well in reality. To live well in reality we should compromise with official dogma. For example, Copernicus, the famous Italian astronomer, dared not publish his new theory until his death, for fear that he would thus be persecuted by the Church.

The same can be said about Darwin, who also had many considerations before his masterpiece The Origin of Life was published.) But to design a fascinating game, Daoism is never enough. We need many traditional disciplines, such as Chinese medicine, 铸冶，城市，地理（方輿）… are needed. Thus an “absurd” thing happened! Some advanced players for one particular game of this genre, gathered at a place called online forum, and created sub-cultural products around the “touching” game. Thus we have music, literature and photography, all around one particular game.  As for myself, for many years in my past, I was obsessed with one game called 仙剑奇侠传. The last stage for me to touch this series was the time when I was once attracted by one online literary adaptation of its plot at Senior One (Notice this time period!)  At that time, though I totally stopped playing games, its sub-influence is continuing. I still believe the plot described by one particular game of 游侠 (and I appreciate it very much at that time). Hence I read many literary compositions (often combined with pictures which were 游戏截图plus 后期制作) around this game. And my motivation of learning more about computer is mainly inspired from the desire of knowing something about the interior mechanism of this game. And I have to say, the view of love in this game series has great influence on my past realistic behavior (and very probably it still functioned on me without my realization). Only in the past several months I was trying to cleanse all its residual poison (but it seemed impossible to totally exclude this spiritual affect after its so many years’ actions on me). At our university, once I found books of仙剑奇侠传 were occupying shelves of my one roommate. Maybe it is astonished that online game stretches its claw into realistic cultural products. One of the most mature form is the whole retelling of this game in literature, belonging to 玄幻 genre. 爱乌及乌, is the inevitable rule both in traditional Chinese politics and in this game. But the essence involves the heroine. If you “loved” the heroine in this game, you loved her words, her abilities and her image as  搜狗 skin (once I did so)! (it was said many 实体手工艺品 related to this series sold very well.)

Subtopics around such game are endless but can not escape two core elements mentioned above: love and violence. And it was worthwhile to evaluate such benefit brought by computer science. When I was at home alone at the age of a teenager, I often played such game stealthily. No sooner my parents opened the door than I switched off the power socket of the computer. But I cannot cover one fact---the temperature of the computer. This is essential. It is well known that computer must disperse heat when works and we were taught by the second law of thermodynamic the microscopic mechanism of it. Similar things can be said about the two elements. To simplify the question, we consider one person facing another person(often his peer) or facing a monster. In former case love happens and in latter case is the violence. Neither can not be accomplished singly, and single state is lowest in the magnitude of “entropy”. Hence he must seek another in the vast world. Occasionally he will meet a monster or an evil person, who he dislikes. Then collision happens. Heat disperses. Or he might meet a person he likes, who he calls a companion. But acting as a whole, they as companions need unifying at many aspects, for example, the route and the pace of movement(state of更有序)). To achieve all these purposes, chemical energy is consumed and entropy increases. But in either case above, the subjective feelings are more satisfied than moving alone. If we admitted the principle in thermodynamics can be extended as basic assumption in human behavior (that is, we assume entropy exists in human and it has natural tendency to increase), then we will deduce the cause and effect of game playing. From my own experience, I knew that I often could not resist playing such game when alone at home. This is the starting point in which the entropy is lowest. Then I must seek some exciting thing to do, thus increasing the entropy in myself. But the biological rule determined that the increasing process will gradually be saturated as time goes on in playing games. But often I find difficult to stop because abruption will lower the entropy suddenly to its starting point and sudden or not continuous change is most unsuitable for us. In this process, love and violence are two main factors which increase the entropy. Its mechanism needs further study.

I must speak of nonsense above. Indeed, traditionally we can never imagine there can exist science to find the cause of human behavior. We explain improper behaviors simply as “荒亡之行”（孟子曰，从兽无厌谓之荒，乐酒无厌谓之亡. Notice that we do not have computer games to play in ancient times.）and despised it without further investigation.

(But at our times there were several disciplines gave scientific explanations. Although I knew nothing about these disciplines, at least I knew they exist. Hence I have the possibility to analyze as above. To a large extent, my thoughts were never invented by myself but determined by my era.)

## (3) from 游侠 to ethnics

It seems natural for Daoism and Buddhist to neglect ethnic requirement. Thus in computer games of 游侠，the 千金 of rich or powerful houses would always run away with an “obscure” guy, on account of only personal feelings. All of these stories indeed were made up of from imagination. Even if some girls in reality ran away, they were from that moment on the pillar of shame forever. Such is the requirement of ethnics, at least in Chinese society, from ancient to current. The famous poem 《卫风 氓》 is indeed an orthodox example to criticize the phenomenon of “男女无别，遂相奔诱”. And the persuasion lies at the outcome (其黄也陨，士贰其行). Thus the poem taught that “于嗟女兮，无与士耽。”Though there were modern poetic interpretation of this poem, it was still accepted that “淫奔” was despised by most people. The ethnics maintained the structure of society as main pillars, thus killing every individual offender without mercy.

Since the beginning of twentieth century, we always evaluate a literary works, saying that the hero and heroine tried to 冲破封建礼教的束缚. Hence all the computer games of 游侠 also satisfied this criterion. But it was never the main point. Whether the Chinese society really breaks through the boundary of 封建礼教 is not determined by a very small literary circle including鲁迅. No matter how many times 鲁 found two words called “吃人”in all the historical books (《狂人日记》) and how hard 鲁 cried in his collections of novels(《呐喊》), it had little influence on the reality. Should we applause to the deep criticism of 鲁 on ourselves? But if the father of 鲁 had not been delayed by “bad Chinese doctors”， maybe he would never become so determined to attack the tradition.

From early age, we were taught the right attitude to tradition, called 取精去粕. At least some thought there were no “精” and we could not further the development on the original basic centered at ethnics. While others thought there were no “粕”considering historical conditions. And they think we should recover the essence of tradition. Thus the old edition of 三字经 should be recited by kids. The part for natural science is very short, “三光者，日月星”; while the part for history is very long. And the purpose of reading history is “考世系，知终始”. From young age, you should know that the ancestor of 晋文公 is from the story of “桐叶封弟”while the ancestor of 吴王夫差 is from the brother of the grandfather of 周文王. All of such knowledge is consistent with the ethnic stream in reality. Even if we observe the sky carefully, it was never as pure as western philosophers at the same time, 子曰，“为政以德，譬如北辰，居其所而众星拱之。”

If our generations have some advantages over those of 鲁迅，it was definitely we mastered much of natural science and mathematics from a little kid to university education. As I can remember, I was both a crazy kid to a particular computer game of 游侠 and小学数奥. Once when I was attending a lecture every Saturday, I met with another kid who also had played the same game. We immediately became “close friend” and talked ceaselessly after class only about the game. It was interesting to note that I would play through the same game for many times with delight at that age, but I would probably not repeat the solution of the same mathematical questions I had solved before. At that age, I could not distinguish relative truth from fantastic imagination.

Involved into a system of world, man can find nothing improper. Thus at the same time when modern technology brings convenience to the lives of people in my hometown, people here still stick to the same dogma of ethnics passed from their parents. When anyone tried to argue for something, he would find him isolated and intolerant from others. I had a brother reading for doctor degree at the direction of pesticide. “In order to get the degree, you must write a thesis which is accepted by journals abroad. And you should continuously correct your English thesis for fear that your thesis be sent back  on account of poor English.” One of my study brother reading for mathematical doctor degree at THU also said, “Sometimes I felt inconvenient to write in English, even though I know what I want to say.” If the tradition were reviving, how needed we caring about the acceptance of journals abroad?

At least we knew we could never put the system of western natural science and mathematics away and start a new system from zero point. While for the case of Confucianism, it was quite possible that it can become historical relics since its core, ethnics, may have some problems. From this meaning, 文天祥，顾炎武… Almost all of these historical figures, from whom we can get no inspirations to work out problems in our major, since they belong to the other distinct system which had ceased effectual development from the time of 鲁迅。Indeed we choose a new system, which is much younger even than the system of western science. Some people doubted it on account of political propaganda. Some people liked it on account of personal interest. But whoever lives in this environment is inevitable to be influenced by this system. This system actually includes the development of science. My brother said, “You can get salary from becoming graduate student, since you are working for our country. You are researching on the important project supported by our country.” Thus for general Chinese people, they thought natural science and technology only as a common sub-branch of various regions. News reports the latest development of science. CCTV 10 told the story of nature. And 10 probably represented its position. At the current situation of our country, we can not upgrade its status more. As for the spiritual lives of people, music is much more popular. Religious books sell much better than popular science readings. How many students celebrated after the final math examination in college, “I am very happy that I can never learn math from now on.” How much percentage of science readings are limited to kids and young people, for the purpose of helping the science study at school? I was indeed complaining and it would be better if I can hide my feelings in literary form. The characteristics of science itself contribute to the embarrassment of its situation in society. If we asked ourselves, how many times we were tortured instead of delighted while reading textbooks? How much solid of the mathematical and physical foundation one needs to understand some simple principle of natural world, for example, why the orbit of earth is ellipse?

While Newton firstly gave scientific answer to this difficult question from accurate astronomical observations, our generations were defending for Confucianism, with many famous people dying as martyr heartedly or living as hermits to seek chances to exclude barbarians. A month ago I happened to read one moving letter of 夏完淳(he wrote the famous poem 别云间，which we learned at Junior School) to his mother before his beheading by enemies. The key tone is very similar to 《与妻书》, only with different ideological considerations. All of martyrs and hermits deserve our respect without doubt. But the problem is that their ideal lacks something, which can not, like 仁义，or 奉献 be “injected” into us in short period of time. Confucianism emphasized that men were born with heart of love, but men are never born with scientific thinking mode. As I noted above, even if we were educated by mathematics, physics, chemistry, biology and natural geography, we still could not think problems in scientific mode. Instead, we think problems in exam mode, in the same mode when the examining contents are of Confucianism one hundred years ago. I agreed with what you said one year ago. Science can never be separated from society. Hence the scientific education is full of 铜臭. During one winter vacation, a University professor can travel to my municipal city to give lectures titled, “自主招生考前辅导”. But two days later, he hurried to the next station.

Indeed we can criticize social phenomenon heavily as 鲁迅, but it made no difference. The question is the same and only perspective differs. The question can be put forward in the following way: 毛主席，站起来，温饱问题 solved; 邓爷爷，富起来，小康生活 achieved. Then what is the next? 子曰，庶矣，（population）然后富之。 冉有问曰，既富矣，又何加焉，曰，教之。Indeed the contents of teaching change fundamentally. And I wondered whether implicit method of stupefying people exists. Internet is of disorder and we, intellectuals, are still trapped by it sometimes, let alone others. From young age, we recited 小学生守则10条，规范20条，八荣八耻16条，endless passages in political books of middle school, then we are immune from (western) corrupt ideas. But it seems we are not immune from materialism (When we wrote compositions before CEE, we often use the word, 物欲橫流). Every day what my parents talked were not beyond food, clothes, house, and trivial matters in patriarchal big family. Occasionally they find some food is reserved in the refrigerator for too long time and must be casted away. The first thing after my return is led into clothes shop. They bought several houses in my small town. And they talked and evaluated the family life of relatives. This is typical and ideal life for Chinese a generation ago, no ideal life for more than two thousand years. Now by the help of modern technology, life is perfect. But then I wonder what is the difference between, for example, 开元天宝 and 胡温习李？ Are they both “老者安之，朋友信之，少者怀之”，the (ethnic) final pursuit, put forward by Confucius? Indeed we felt our ethnics degenerated when we wrote compositions before CEE. But I do not feel it a fundamental problem compared with the contents of 教化, since the degenerating problem is inevitable in every prosperous times.
Yesterday, I went alone into obscure local hills to make investigations. Though the hill is not high, the climbing is struck by a particular plant, having sharp thorns in its thin branches (I only know the vernacular name). It was inevitable to be harmed by such “merciless” plant, which is of high density in the middle of the hill. When I went down along another path, I came across a shepherd with dozens of sheep, and particularly, a masculine strong dog. After a short dialogue with him, I knew him as local villager. “Do you think there are wolves nearby?” I asked.
“How come! If any, how can he hide himself! It was human activity he should evade from. You know the geography nearby…”

Then the story I was told at early age to prevent me from exploring further is made up by adults.
          

