# To Liu
2015/2/8

In your reply you mentioned “The loss of faith” and the efforts of retracing it, you are targeting inward probably, here I’d like to share my story of the loss of faith and the efforts of reconstructing them in three paragraphs.

In Senior Two, I learned by heart words written in the official philosophy textbook though the teacher, regarding us as students oriented towards S and T, only gave informal and infrequent courses on this fundamental subject. In this mental castle, one concept, called Doublethink, a made-up word in Chapter 3 of a novel “1984”, is taking up high status. Its official English calling is dialectics perhaps, but that is not so important. The point is that I learned it by heart and then after two years, someone told me it was unable to prove the holding of this mental castle and I was gradually convinced.

But on necessary assumptions the proof of this mental castle is well written on humanity books, including the interpretation of 《尚书》 which I read now. The necessary assumption can be found in the listing of knowledge in the libraries of China, including libraries of our universities, in which books beginning with “A” is Marxism,Leninism…while our science books begin with “O”, far behind.

《尚书》 records the oldest political history of China, or we can say it bears the essential Confucian ideas. Because of the intruding of Confucianism into our ancient history, it was doubted that ancient historical books are nothing than the genealogy of emperors and important officials. But as we, using the new ideology to construct the long-time ancient history of China, it became also nothing than the struggle between classes and the evolution of social forms. One important theme, in both official historical books and The National Museum of China in Beijing, which I visited a few days ago, is the mixing of nations (Han and minorities) and “统一的多民族国家”, which is totally urgent and right, serving as one important proof for the stability of current China.

Forgive my abstract way of retelling my story of loss of faith, you could retort me or express anything else in the realm of history, since “there was no knowing how much of this legend was true and how much invented”, which is a quotation from last page of Chapter 3 of “1984”. 
