# After reading a comic biography of Nietzsche (or Fritz in short)
2015/9/13

Recently I showed some kind of interest in history book arranged in comic way, several of which are went through page by page and the speed is quite fast. Among them were Leonhard Euler, Friedrich Nietzsche (outstanding persons) and Cartoon History of Taiwan, Propaganda pictures in modern history, and if only picture is considered,  Xi Jinping, the governance of China (in which dozens of personal pictures are contained). Indeed, such tendency is likely to consider such problem like “Picture Effect”, which belongs to specific region of art design. However, specific life stage and era stage and even past life experience puts on different interpretation on life stories read. And Fritz and Euler provide suitable comparison for me to start my interpretation.

Though both of them belong to different epoch in European history, their life spans share much in common while maintaining significant difference. In childhood, both of them are expected to become priests and are regulated to learn a lot in Classics (Greek and Latin theology, literature etc.). Both of them diverted from such expectations and opened a new grounding in their respective region. However, such region pioneering is not absolutely by chance and their epoch proved such need to achieve this. Then we have the Royal Society in each independent national state, and Euler went whichever gave the highest salary. (Even today scientific research can not isolate from institutions, but part of such institutions can be large corporation like Wolfram Project, which shows its more specific strength than national project) Then the philosophy has to confront the “Era Question”, brought about by both scientific progress and social fluctuations. In Fritz’s time, we have the rapid development in thermodynamics for the former and the uprising of working class for the latter, both of which are interpreted by Fritz in his work, though highly abstract, and not directly touching any incidents.

My historical consideration often shines on my era, quite different from history but in some points very alike. Every youth knows “Starting an undertaken” is very hot nowadays (创业), and Creation in technological level is highly encouraged (perhaps in ideological level is unpopular by official side).From posters, newspaper, and even heresay from neighbors frequently show such topic. From the propaganda of newly-born modern China there displayed another hot topic, that is military oriented, highly patriotic-immersed environment. Though the latter two topic are not out-of-date even from today’s point of view, their once priority is converted to the competence in world-market. Recalling from history book of high school, I gradually understand why we need immersing so much economic elements in general historiography. Ideological consideration is on the one hand, the other lies at the today’s trend and common view. In the past, such communication brings great vitality to Western Europe, now it benefits (though in some specific aspect harms) the whole world in a much faster speed. We contribute what we enjoy partly to the contribution of Economy (though different groups have very distinctive economical theory). Recalling all my recreational activity which had happened, is happening and will happen, none of which can reach me without the normal operation of today’s world order. 

My such interpretation of my era is also a dynamically evolving interpretation, if compared with those I made a few months ago, the distinction is quite obvious:

观今日之世，奢侈品之生产之方兴未艾，徒取天下稀缺之资，以为此无用之物，使失学之童，多于周身之帛缕，使游离之民，多于在庾之粟粒，使贫富之殊途也愈甚，使天下剩余之物力也亦穷，如此观之，岂不可谓吾辈徒速取亡而已矣。
然则亦有可解之良策乎？

曰：是诚在人为，以余观之，吾世今日之病，在科技之勃兴而伦理之日坏。此种类似之情形，吾国古圣先贤有尝论之矣。自两汉而还，迄自五代，佛老之说泛滥横流，人心大坏，我韩文公昌黎遭此世变，为天下先，辩斥异端，崇明正道，惜其后继无人，至有五代之极丧乱之势。北宋开国，二程绍千年既绝之绪，阐圣人未发之理，至朱子而融前人义理之精，正人心而息邪说，使我华夏文明，历异族之两劫而易彰。其故何哉？无它，民心淳朴而向善，使邪说辟行无由而起，嘉言善行，速于置邮而播之四方也。

对曰：兄论见极是，伦理之废，未有疏于此时也，民之憔悴，未有甚于此时也，然则今日之事，科技日新，其置传统于荒谬之境，实起不证自明之功也。吾人将何以待之？

曰：科技于伦理价值无涉，此为致乱之源。近世之战争足以明之。又有狂人若干，造为克隆人之说，以摇动是非。科技伦理之比例畸形，于国家实无益处。印度亦一科技大国矣，然其贫富分化，种姓仍行，社会之乱象有甚于中国矣；日本亦一强国矣，然其妄自尊大，拜战犯为英雄，其伦理之差等，与吾国自不可同日语矣。要之伦理不察，科技必误入歧途矣。

Though I read very little about Fritz, it seems that he always made such comment on his Era, comment that is odd, dissent and apparently anti-social. From his beginning on “The Origin of Greek Tragedy”, he made his own view regardless of norms of philology. And at the end, he even criticized every great idea sources from Aristotle, Luther to his contemporary. In retrospect, his voice is never nonsense, but still a very personal matter even in today’s view. By this I mean, the society or even society cell can not be organized following his dogma, if we do not hope the chaos to happen. But on the other hand, many historical idea source still has influence on modern citizen in private space---somehow if we are actively ignored about unknown, our ideas may be dominated by such historical idea. But such domination seems no harm to others because we are less likely to enter into these kinds of unknown and all what we do is playing “idea exercise” with ourselves with less flexibility. Such harmless “idea exercise” seems a kind of freedom in private space and we can learn from great thinkers about the explanations of “The Separation between public sphere and private matter”, which is a historical, sociological and philosophical task. 

But maybe the explanation is not the ending of the story, the next question we common people inquire is “if your interpretation held, then what should I do within such interpretation?” A historical open-end question indeed, seducing every great thinker to try to give some instructions. Fritz is not an exception. He is not like 金岳霖, who were influenced by his Era but contributed mainly such influence to academic treatise. Fritz, probably less active as Marx (they are co-Era but with instinctively opposite philosophical ideas). One of his social activity is the establishment of A Theater, cooperated with Wagner. Such odd activity is based on his philosophical comprehension of essence of tragedy, and act as a cure to social problem (preventing the turmoil of working class instigated by propaganda of Marx, for example). And probably that is why his idea is sanctioned by official side. Unfortunately, this ideal design failed very quickly and led to the turning of Fritz’s philosophical attitude. Philosophical things always often like this maybe. It seems extremely powerful in private space, but extremely powerless set in public sphere (to strength its power in public, art design and microcosmic psychological theory, etc. is needed. And if used from private to public, it had to adjust its voice according to what happened. One Classical Example is what Marx said in the whole process of French Civil War. Though under the same philosophical structure, it reacts with up and down of the war. Sometimes the predictions failed and remedial measure has to be conjured up to encourage the spirits. But even it succeed very luckily, e.g. The Parisian won their revolution and the communism was realized almost fifty years ago (before 1917), then what happened next? Marx became the prime chancellor of the newly-born community. But he had to face those practical problems he had never considered before, and it seems all came to the question that whether the theorist and philosopher is able to govern a state. But history never gave us the chance to testify such question, theorists are theorists and politicians are politicians, those politicians who are flattened as theorists are still politicians no matter how much contributions he made to one state. Such macroscopic discussion seems out of our immediate reality—campus life. But even within this small eco-system, such distinction between theorists and practitioners exist. If life maxim came out of 周国平 or any erudite humanity scholars, it is quite acceptable and maybe we can recall these sentence now and then. But the following two cases are absurd: 

One: if any erudite scholars try to instruct our practical life---like on which you should finish your master degree because you have some characteristics, quite suitable to practice on this region,     	

Two: if common practitioners say some splendid “empty” words

In retrospect, if the humanity scholars are quite erudite, then he is supposed to possess the ability to distinguish the type of person. But in reality he rarely did so, not wholly because of general humanity mastery can not solve details of question (probably it often fails, on the contrast), but because the clear distinction between private decision-making region and public responsibility region. In the former, even our parents are hard to determine for us. But in the latter, it seems we have no choice but to fulfill.              
