# Personal orientation in mathematics
## Recent thoughts
2015/5/26

It was a few weeks that I did not write essays in English. Its usage is confined mainly within science study. Hope my degenerated English expressions will not induce your laugh.

Individual recollections are trivial compared with even local news occurring in our present living city. It represents nothing but one’s growth towards one kind of schooling. I have to admit that nowadays I was undergoing sociology redirection, which does not mean I read much about its theory but mean I, without awareness, think problems within its norm. It may be connected with the approaching orientation within my major---but this is also a common choice within both physics and mathematics department. Thus I confined myself within this topic this time.

It was quite strange that my complex analysis professor determined to give us extra courses on Saturday morning, thus adding the total study hour to 8 classes next week. You said you had learned this course last semester. And by the words of unbounded course giver, 李岩松, complex functions are a tough journey and fundamental tools. However, my professor never treats his darling as mathematical tools. Instead, it is an interesting exploration of pure mathematical world. Thus his teaching is full of strict proof without any physical “bad habits” and physics examples. Honestly speaking, our burden is added under such instructions---because in most cases we can only “appreciate” almost perfect proof process and unable to apply such learning. By such words you may notice my attitude between appreciation and application. It is fundamentally different from my initial purpose of coming here two years ago. There was one area in complex analysis, in which we can solve some planar geometry problems neatly by using linear fractional transformation. When I learned this technique to prove some pure planar geometry problems, all of my efforts on planar geometry in junior two emerge vividly in my mind. At that time, I do not know what is physics and what is chemistry. And at that time, the course of biology should be called health and basic physiology (targeted towards growing adolescents). Thus my enthusiasm is sacrificed towards pure planar geometry (except for endless playing time). Today we know that Newtonian physics should use some basic knowledge of planar geometry---that is what CEE examined us in both mechanics and electromagnetism. But pure planar geometry provides  fundamental different images, which have far beyond possibility of application. For example, the fiver center of triangles, are discussed in great detail in this region (their relations are also explored for general triangles). But today even as a science student, knowing gravity point is enough. After entering high school and having learned trigonometry and planar vector, I was fascinated by their application in planar geometry. Tools are oriented towards pure mathematics, but even with the help of trigonometry and planar vector, I felt there is little possibility to develop systematical methods to solve problems. Cases are, you read through the solutions or proofs of one particular problem or theorem. It was quite different, for example, in residue theorem. Such highly applicable theorem was taught in a pure theoretical way---I have to pay respect to the mathematical image of my professor. He used three classes to teach us how to calculate definite integrals using this theorem. But in most time, we are proving why the extra introduced arc integral converges to zero or a given number. In the skills of calculating definite integrals using residue theorem, our pioneers developed a list of methods oriented towards different type of the integrand. Thus I felt learning this list is much easier than learning how to prove a big theorem.

In today’s course of complex analysis, we learned harmonic functions. I felt anyone who did not preview this subsection will be quite confused at the long way of proof of famous “mean value property” of harmonic functions. The difference lies at that the conditions of theorem are weakened. And we are always dealing with general “region”, in which an exact differential may not have original (single-valued) functions. All of these treatments are the boundary lines between major students and non-major. And such beneficial trainings are mainly derived from the image and methodology of pure mathematics. In comparison, learning the list of definite integral calculation is less meaningful, since it was very concrete and mechanical.

But what is the image of application of mathematics? I learned this from one course a lot,---Probability. Indeed it is equipped with abstract concepts, but its ideas are never pure. It is motivated by the area of economy and is a rapid developed hot area in the recent 20 years. Today we have a complete theory about probability. Maybe it can be paralleled with chaos in physics. By a word, I was met for the first time “Nonlinear” in mechanical analysis, which showed me the high complexity of even one simple model. But the method itself is never easy to understand and master. I felt that in science branch, application did not mean relatively easy to handle, but it means a specialization of knowledge. In Probability, the proof of theorem is even more difficult to understand than in complex analysis, but all of the abstraction is based on one direction of specialization.

Probability also told me the mechanism of crossing two different systems. Indeed, abstract measure theory is used by Probability to construct its theory system. Thus Lebesgue became immortal in history. This mathematician developed an odd system of integrations and were devoted to extend classical mathematical theory. Afterwards, someone used his products to develop the theory of Probability, gradually forming what we saw today.

So, what matters? As a common science student, I found it was much more difficult to cross two different scientific systems, even I was quite familiar with both of them. Objective Rules inhibit absurd behaviors in science, but it seems such crossing can happen very easily in humanity. In humanity it seems everyone can become a constructor, thus making them less persuasive and more out of sense. For example, one criticizer used 群落演替 ，one concept in ecology, which we learned at high school. He used this macro biological concept to analyze 中国青春文学盛衰规律. Interweaving the two different things make one sentence of animal followed by another sentence of literature. I even felt that I had also the ability to interweaving Confucianism with this literature topic (从文以载道出发批评此类文学) . Thus making one sentence of Confucius followed by another sentence of 校园言情小说(先定性为六朝颓废之文字等). But it made no difference but making it an interesting idea to read through, or make it a good chance to practice the dogma of Confucianism. But to tell the truth, my recent world image severely severed my metaphysical interpretation of Confucianism, though I may feel lucky to be educated by 朱熹 before my current world image over-dominates. But maybe one day I will find the whole system of Confucianism is nothing, and feel unlucky to waste time in this area. This is unsettled.

In comparison, Interweaving of scientific systems is quite difficult and seems the patent of foreign great scientists. Thus we have mathematical physics, physical chemistry, chemistry biology, biophysics, and even theoretical biology (mathematical biology). If you understand group theory application in chemistry as mathematical chemistry, then the six pairs are complete. So, what matters. Only the first three items are taught in undergraduate level, and as major basic courses for corresponding department. In each of the three items, it was said of high difficulty and complexity. Maybe similar to Probability in my department.  You can say the advancement of ways of constructions made science textbooks more and more difficult to understand. At current level, textbooks of organic chemistry explained the mechanism of reaction using structural formula with electron transfer. But we can imagine such stages when various reactions can be physically described very well, then translated to mathematical generalization. However, I know for me even knowing physical model is not easy. 李岩松 uses a model of small vibration (6 degree of freedom) to simulate the behavior of carbon dioxide. One difficulty is understanding physical approximation, the other is how to solve the equation, then the third is how to interpret the results of solution. One carbon dioxide tortures me a lot, then it is imaginable to think learning organic chemistry in such math-phy way. Indeed, recognizing the current classification of chemical reactions is enough to make students crazy. Especially when we come to add oxygen into C-H compounds.

It is the colossal systems of modern science, maybe what can I do in the future is applying some numerical methods to solve some problems in interested area. Indeed, I seemed to have some interest in theoretical biology. And according to the introduction of Wikipedia, it was an area initially divided into numerous sub-areas.       
