# Reading Reaction
## 读“铁窗里的最后三月”，from a journal called 瞭望东方
2015/4/24

It is always interesting to notice the life trajectory of other types of people. Throwing always all the concepts of social class and psychological analysis, what can I see from the short story told indirectly by the reporters?

It is normal to make some analogy between those so-called criminals and groups of Tsinghua undergraduate students, fourth of which will graduate in around three months. Three months are identical to the waiting time of criminals. For me, it is probably after three months I will return to my hometown, finishing exactly half trajectory of undergraduate life, which is also printed by the color of general education, though a few courses during this time are quite difficult and relevantly advanced. Whatever I like it or not, I must make my decision on the orientation within my department in three months, and probably I will realize my teaching program in mother high school in three months, and most fundamentally, I will determine the orientation beyond my department. Among the three important decisions, the third is most faint and hard to tackle with. I have already entered in some fields but exited halfway, with strong disgust towards these fields. On the other hand, second stage of undergraduate education gives me narrower space to exceed my mathematical orientation, though theoretically possible. Anyway, these decisions will be made within three months—just as an emperor has to leave a will, whether he likes it or not.

But beyond myself, what can I see from the story of these criminals. Three months before they can return to society, they are sent to a special place to receive some necessary education. Three months, for they, just like us, are times of education, though their density of courses is far lower than us, and ours are far lower than students of high school. So what education means for them? Not to return to jails again? Or to learn how to earn one’s own money in society? Both are essential for their education. Comparatively, the center point of our education is technical training of major, during this process our world view will be largely printed within the major background. So what lessons can we get by making such comparison? It seems the moral sense of the story lies that we should cherish current happy life. Indeed it is a universal moral lesson for people without crime background. But I dare say in the process of our judgment, another factor functions, that is concept of 仁. I use a Confucian terminology instead of a more common word 爱，which is used by other social circles simultaneously, for example, characteristic Chinese socialism, volunteerism and philanthropy. The latter two originate from western world but have worldwide influence, far larger than the former regional one. By saying above I mean that the love concept of Chinese socialism is product of political environment. This love concept can not be transmitted out of our country. The same regional limitation holds for Confucian love concept, though with the longest history, which is far more borrowed than interpreted within Confucianism itself. At this point, I have no intention to use quotations from Confucius and Mencius to call for our love towards criminals. “Scientists” will criticize that these kinds of explanations have no scientific founding. To know exactly why we individuals will show some altruistic ( also western word) tendency but most of us only remain at the stage of thoughts, we need consult with psychologists, instead of Confucians. It is obvious to notice that psychology is universal while Confucianism can only be studied in advanced academic institutions like Tsinghua University. By saying this I do not mean Confucianism is not learned by people in small towns of China. There is an obvious difference between study and learning (or memorization). According to my observation, small towns mainly use Classics of Confucianism to teach little kids. One of the strangest phenomena is that students of high school are quite ignorant about this field though their textbooks include many such ideological essays. The dogma of this field is near to be separated totally from its deep influence of Chinese society. The biggest platform for the voice of this field has far moved out of the ideology itself. If we call this phenomenon the modern transformation of Confucianism, then this kind of transformation makes a too wide stride. As a result, the highest scholarship---经学 in Chinese, become one genre of Chinese philosophy in the structure of gigantic western discipline branch, and is studied by a few scholars. Our reference books are never interpretations of Classics, instead—they are interpretations of western high advanced mathematics, natural science, logic…          
