# My reconsidering about computer science

Almost about four and half years ago when I was at Senior One, I happened to seek out one 成绩单 of my grade from the email of my physics teacher (Chen). Using Excel to open this, it is quite easy to visualize every detail. This is about the final exam of autumn semester and your classmate DaNing got third place but the total scores of the first three are indeed very near. Actually I can recall every detail around this unforgettable exam if I would like, (even including th psychological activity then) but this is not the key point here. 

The key point is how I try to manipulate the “massive score list”, I am indeed very curious about so-called 各科排名，and hence I learned quickly how to use relative function to print out my required sorting. Your name is indeed very near the top in some kind of sorting. But what else? What else after you know every detail of 排名? At least two psychological process occurs: one is about myself, naturally you would rather pay much efforts to the subject you got a lower score; another is about others, for example, you know more about your “environment”. Anyway, electric 排名 had played a “positive” role in the complex system called High School. But then I had never considered about how can you make out such “massive score list”? At that time I was even surprised to know that you can use Excel to calculate the average or do other simple arithmetic computations. Now (probably after you became a little accustomed with programming) almost every advanced mathematical computation became trivial with the help of powerful mathematical software (we even have specific course to do some training on how to use such software). So now even I seldom use Excel I know a little about how such level software works. But a good programmer never means you can immediately master how to use software like very complex Excel, only after some kind of training can you reach your required function immediately without long time search.

One AI textbook I saw emphasized on the reverse relationship between Knowledge and Search, i.e. the more knowledge you have, the less time you need to search for the target. And the more quickly you can search, the less need you bother to accumulate technical knowledge in your memory (like how to use specific function in Excel). Such knowledge versus searching theory can explain well a good programmer can learn middle level or higher level software very quickly and can adapt to new problems in much shorter time. Sometimes, executing your own routines to finish specific task is more economic than using specific software after you spend quite a bit time searching required function.

In retrospect, our computer science education in high school is totally a failure, ending with dramatic scene by the inculcation of 基能 teacher.

(another topic is about 家乡事业单位职工涨工资对处理此数据的工作人员的CS的要求)     
