# On the sandstorm and heavy wind 
2015/4/15

This evening and night, a heavy sandstorm struck Tsinghua campus. It gave everything exposed directly to atmosphere a thin dust in short time. Such scene naturally reminded students of the old problem—environment protection.

For me It is never the general discussion of the measures or other items which everyone can do when he is interviewed or writes English essay, or even 申论，current Chinese official certificate examination. Now every problem must be divided into different region and studied in detail. However, I have no abilities to accomplish the research but to read the products of others. Even so, it is still a tough job since written things have been processed carefully to make it full of facts and simultaneously lack of sensations. Thus finding a proper book to read and to look for the solution to one aspect of the problem is by itself difficult. And during the process of thinking about this fundamental problem concerning the future of human, I for the first time appreciate the importance of one department—Environment. This problem is complex enough to need a whole branch of majors to solve. And from my faint memory of one quick-skim “Environment Science”, this kind of major is destined to be trans-discipline. My bad luck let me borrow one sophisticated book about sustainable development, and what I only know after a peruse of its few pages is that we need economic terminology to define “sustainable development”, then I know that is why major student in this branch has to learn economy, law, and even international relationship—all these distinctive disciplines contribute to the quick development of this new major, which owns many terminology within, too.

But what I can do, or more concisely, what orthodox natural science can do for this fundamental problem. They have indeed very few relations. Recently I seem crazy to concern about new problems every day so that I can never thoroughly read some books in detail. But by doing so I gradually form my own style of treating a fundamental problem (indeed I can never say fundamental problems can be solved absolutely, let alone claim it can be solved by genius). One essential link is finding relevant books from library. By frequent looking for books recently, I find that some branch is nearly empty (if my methodology and structure of knowledge categories hold). In our contemporary times—so multi-dimensional, some branches are still little visited, one reflection is that books about them are rare. The traditional topic is still prevalent, one typical example is love is best illustrated by literature, and death by religion. Though science gave a totally different answer to the two problems, these answers are ignored or reluctantly refused by different approaches. As a result, science is read by experts---much harder to be appreciated by both sophisticated scholars and general readers. That is in 21st and modern science has several hundred years behind. Science is gradually enlarging its research object, but these objects are just like a drop of water in vast ocean. What I mean by saying “very few discussed” topic is the specific philosophy developed from concrete region of discipline. I know some specific philosophy really exist such as medical philosophy and engineering ethnics. But I have not seen eating philosophy and environmental philosophy. Traditional western philosophy gave very abstract descriptions of some fundamental concepts, but now by applying the basic methodologies of western philosophy, every specific philosophy can be established without difficulty, even lacking of technical knowledge about this discipline. I wonder now the possibility of separation between the technical stratum and philosophical stratum. Some examples supports the negative answer---it matters whether you master the ideas of proof of a mathematical theorems or not. But many examples give positive answer--- (1) specific knowledge is easily forgotten because of its narrow region. And some technical treatment is really insignificant out of the specific region. (2) knowledge within a specific region can never be connected in a contact way. Even in mathematics the case is so. Thus top students can conduct half-listen and half-do methods during course times. Perhaps it is rooted in the cognitional habit of human. If one has already some knowledge beforehand, he can generally be quite easy with the repetition of the knowledge. In general cases, students with fine basis can deal with new materials in class, unless the materials are too difficult.
