# Looking back at my progress in science education
2015/6/18

I choose this path as a lifelong way to push forward, therefore it is meaningful to trace back my touched interest in modern science in early childhood.

Compared with other kinds of recreation or educational form in my early childhood enlightenment, science only takes a small account of but is influential to my later orientation. I was born at the second decade in the ever-speeding reform and opening-up step of China, so that I can be confronted with many new products, even though I was born in a small town. The crucial way to accomplish it is to take public bus to the shopping center (a tall building) at downtown street, always with my mother. I often brought home many “booties”, of which toys, maze books, and picture books”. But among these picture books emerge my first encounter with science exploration and knowledge exhibitions. The unforgettable contributes to Haier Brother. It also had corresponding cartoon series and told the story of explorations of the world by modern people. What made it different from purely adventure stories is that the explorers solved problems according to scientific principles. It is not based on regional supernatural power or the amazing power of human sensations. Such a spirit can be traced to the Age of Great Exploration in true history. Afterwards, in a novel called the Crusoe of Robison, the struggle against tough isolated island living is won by following of scientific methods.
