# 致冬瑜 Confucianism
2015/7/3

以下为余于亲儒家义理之时所作较综合之论述，有个人之定向者，如下文1，然更多者为以此义理考量社会问题，5之引用最丰，虽有批儒家伦理之言，然此文归之以孔氏之说，仍为有所取于此中义理者也。而2中论及传统知识传授之法，虽末涉义理之关键处，仍有对此传统授受法之提倡之趋向。2，3，4，5无不以科技为之对比，以明吾人之时代实与传统中国不可同日语也。要之，此六篇皆一家之言，不足以成学，君若志于儒学，当讲求六经之大体，于余之彼时言论可当小报之异说读之，不必深思也。

1 2015.3.15 儒学中“君子疾没世而名不称焉”之现实版本

2 2015 3 21余于此日就清华设经学班一事与某同学书

3 2015 4 10 余于此日论及儒学普及之艰，以初等数学之强势为之对照。此篇因以外文记之，君可览观其零星之汉字，即可知其大概。

4 2015 4 26 on Nepal earthquake 此篇有为传统之迷信张本之嫌

5 今岁寒假，余读史记之世家部分，感其实以封建伦理为纲，而作此篇，寄之友人。

6 去岁初秋，余应某高中语文老师之邀，作如下励志之书，君可只取涉儒家义理之句读之

2015 3 21 余于此日就清华设经学班一事与某同学书

I happenly spotted the first issue of 清新时报 of this semester. One of the important news is the new policy of 自招 of Tsinghua university this year. It said that we newly established two humanity classes enrolling students oriented at 经学 and 出土文献学 respectively(建经学实验班). And there even published a specific comment in Column A3 about field at 经学 enrollment. Of course both the commentor and I did not study 经学 as “major”, which is indeed main learning in ancient China. But I consider it not improper for an “outsider” to say something starting from this new policy.

(此处略去不相关之内容)

China has long history of using Classics to test candidates and this path only terminated about a hundred years ago. Interestingly, this path of success seems gradually accessible after its block of several decades. And people tend to hold that along this path it is much easier to get through than through science, since we can force kids to learn Classics by heart （成一种记诵之学） but it is much difficult to force others to learn science by heart. And any parents who prepared their kids with strict traditional家学 training will have much higher rate of success if their kids are at Senior Three this year, because familiarity with Classics can never be mastered overnight. But the rate of success will be much lower in the next year, since you can make even an idiot memorize the Classics within a year. 
Above I talk about my pre-college educational experience and the possible implication of 经学 as a pathway into Tsinghua. During the preceding discussion, the invisible social mechanism is treated as a whole without further analysis. Below I will give my immature opinions to teaching-and-learning relationships in both the region of 经学 ( using《孟子》as an example) and science.

The 学生公寓 system at our university provides us with free-of-charge journals such as 《大学生》. The latest issue reported a story about a hot young physics professor at 华东理工大学. The reason for his popularity is very simple: he is proficient in writing literarily and has many literary articles published. The literary description of his popularity by editors is also very simple: many young lady from humanity and art department chose his University Physics Course only for a look of him.

Amateurs probably would think that in the course of University Physics the professor is very important to make students understand some important points. But for some 亲历者 the sole function of the professor is to tell you 考点 and push (not the verb, “help”) you to memorize it. One problem lies at the generality of this course. When a professor has to confront more than one hundred students who were forced to choose this course, then no wonder the main function of the professor is the function of urging.

In the similar way, amateurs probably would think in the course like 孟子研读 the function of the lecturer is trivial expect for urging you to hand in your made-up paper. But for some 悦于义理者 the lecturer is essential to make them understand the Classics in detail. For them, 义理 is often 幽微难明 and hard to get from personal reading. Thus the way of口耳相传 is indispensible. This explanation seemly can be traced back in teaching-and-learning relationships in ancient China. 
(后文略去)      

2015 4 10 余于此日论及儒学普及之艰，以初等数学之强势为之对照。此篇因以外文记之，君可览观其零星之汉字，即可知其大概。

On the final pursuit

Some religious people insist on the power of divinity and the prophecy of it. In their views, modern science is nothing. Before now I hold firmly their absurdity. But it seems suddenly the same thing happens to me. By saying this I mean a totally new pursuit emerges vividly onto my mind. This is a totally distinct pursuit and very probably contradicted to my science pursuit. It starts from my personal inclusion of “Confucianism”. Though I use this word, I never mean I stick to the dogma of it. Most of the materials are “out of time” or more precisely, need new interpretation. But anyway I can never suffer the fossil destiny of these heritages. It is absolutely true that there have been at least three different Confucian streams emerging gradually onto current Chinese society. One is in the area of politics (所谓当代新儒学), which I knew very little. The second permeates into bookstores—they became one cultural and simultaneously commercial ingredient among many other competitors. The third is most related to my daily life—it is rooted in academic environment. And every week there will be dozens of new books about Confucianism transported into Humanity Library, more than Marxism, (probably because of the percentage of history, one should notice that Marxism has no more than 170 years. Even if researchers describe in great detail of these 170 years, I conjecture the total amount is still less than the historical literature of Confucianism. But at second sight, Confucianism is indeed most oriented in the Classics and Historical Literature. Or we can say other components totally went to Museum or disappear, especially those dirty waste such as纲常. ) It seems that the academic research on Confucianism also exert some influence on the society (many popular or general books on Confucianism are written by famous scholars). Besides, these researchers often give speeches. All I know can be generally divided into the above three divisions.(Later, I knew that Confucianism has good development in Hongkong and Taiwan in the past fifty years. Although in mainland it is only a recent cultural recovery.  And I faintly felt its weakness even though there are three kinds of strength. Perhaps one important cause is the orientation of official ideology, which put Confucianism at a very embarrassing situation. Compared to mathematics, we can find more about this embarrassment. To be honest, I felt China seems to be over-popularized by elementary mathematics, compared to other countries. It is a good thing because you can not find another proper substitute for us to popularize science (remember that other genre of science needs the experiment, which is hard for peripheral kids to accomplish. Here I have no intention to criticize the negative sides of popularizing elementary mathematics by the compulsory command of educational institutions. I only intend to mention the various other streams, competing with Confucianism. At the very early age, children can be tutored by relatives on how to count numbers and calculate---I believe this is unbelievable in ancient times (Parents emphasis on the ability of 九九乘法表，rather than the dogma of Confucianism. Then at stage of kindergarten, and from six grades of primary school you have six different grades of learning mathematics. At the next stage, then you have encountered another six grades of learning more advanced mathematics. And alongside of these forms, two fascinating but also hard-reached form called Mathematical Competition and 自主招生 co-exist. Think of how our descendent will react to the educational history of mathematics of our period when they read related books written by researchers in the far future. Indeed, what is 自招 became trivial for them, and they probably would wonder why there are so many forms of mathematics (小学数学，初中数学，高中数学) because they can not distinguish different forms when they share very similar materials （如初中数学之讲一元二次方程之求解往往于高中数学大量使用）. It was really amazing that very little knowledge of elementary mathematics can generate so many forms automatically （初等数学内容之简，学过高数者可知）---it was really not automatic process propelled by mathematics itself. Here I finish the contrast between Confucianism and Mathematics because my main topic today is on Confucianism. But we can already see the essential behind the popularity of one business. We can never say that popularizing elementary mathematics can give direct impetus to the production of materials, and behind the operation of politics there were never absolutely rationale, far less than the research of science, because we only consider very few factors at the same time. (Remember that in Mathematical Analysis we consider the legality of changing limit process while in Mechanical Analysis, the solution of mechanical system is highlighted and the legality of mathematical symbol operations is neglected.) One golden rule of the so-called revival of Confucianism lies in the region of politics. But this approach is nearly impossible because of ideological causes. The most luckiest simultaneously most unfortunate case is that this ideological animal popularizes Confucianism guided by Marxism, which has already happened and is very possible to enlarge in the future . But indeed all the three streams oppose strongly to this kind of politics. I on purpose did not regard the official efforts as the fourth ( or, from the strength, it is the first) stream because it is really not Confucianism but mainly Marxism on Confucianism. Based on my above views followed my naïve ideas in the next.

What great business can young people really accomplish? 梁公二十四岁于时务报上阐救亡图存之良言. He tried to resave the gradually lost confidence by emphasizing our cultural strength. Some arguments are selected from Classics such as Book of Changes, for example, 否极泰来. He even tried to analyze the bad results in post-industrial developed country. This analysis is based on some social theory and is very irrationally used to a certain purpose. All of 梁 have done are beyond what we know about academics in university. The situation of non-academic environment is governed by another set of rule very different from that in academic environment. This is my first worry because I knew every step to do something beyond academic environment, or purely personal improvement, is full of danger.

But danger does not mean there is no possibility to make some attempt. Nowadays the self-start of business by university students is not rare things. …



