# Abstraction of “Science”
2014/10/4

Denny:

Thanks for your remind. But I’m sorry I stayed up late again finishing the unfinished essay started yesterday. Before girls, boys tend to exhibit their aspects of strength and I’m of no exception if I really had some strength. Hope next time I will not talk about my “strength”. 
All below are my personal opinions.

During my short lunch today, I met the study master Z (who I had mentioned in previous letters) with his “disciple” by accident. They are discussing very general mathematical problems, during which I cut in my concern, “Why I find Chinese Science Textbooks are not so logically organized?”

Z denied my question by saying, “Their mathematical demonstrations are very right and you can not regard these as lacking logic. What I dislike about them is their tendency to machinery calculation in mathematical demonstrations…”

I was more confused after his remark. Is it my illusion that (generally speaking) Chinese Science Textbooks are not better than we call English Textbooks?”

Honestly speaking, I seemed to hold some prejudice towards the former textbooks. For example, when I read sentences in Chinese mathematical textbooks such as, “Readers can easily check the correctness of the following proposition…”, while in corresponding language textbooks, it often goes like “by virtue of… and…, we can get…”  Using the same space but the utilities of information given are quite different.

From the completeness of a theory, language is supposed to be of trivial matter while presentation of the complete theory given in a textbook matters. Neglecting the minor difference of choice of words I mentioned above, I still felt two fundamental problems exist in Chinese textbooks. I will give my opinion by using an example---“Introduction of the concept--linear space”.

This is the most important concept of linear algebra, which I met in the second chapter of a German-language textbook (I denote it as G-l t for short. Actually the language difficulty is still a big problem for my present stage). This is a textbook “for students of Mathematics, natural science, technique and economics”; its subtitle is “an application-oriented textbook”. (I’m sorry to write down too many informative messages, which is translated from German. Below is the same case. All the contents in the parenthesis are added by me.) 

In the beginning of the second chapter, the author wrote, “In the previous chapter we have in quite unsystematic way presented some examples, how one can find a mathematical description to given practical problems…Now we will do the task, to explore the mathematical structure systematically. We will put off a deep comprehension of the construction until the next chapter (talking about linear transformation).”(End of the first paragraph).

To tell the truth, I didn’t understand what he was talking in the second, quite long paragraph, but I will try to translate what he said (you’d better omit this paragraph) “We begin by constructing the linear algebra as an axiomatic theory. Such a theory gives definite objects, which can not be completely explained until they are linked by some relations in the framework of the theory. The relations can be established by the rules (in the axiomatic system) according to the laws of logic, which we will learn little by little and get use to. In an axiomatic system, one should present the objects and the rules as closely connected. Although the practical application of such theory is very important, it is for the axiomatic construction quite insignificant, whether or not we have accessible construction of our sensuous intuition for the objects or for the existing relations between them. As long as the theory is consistent, then in mathematics we can consider the occurring objects (in the axiomatic system) as existent and the logical real relations (in the axiomatic system) as combinable.”

In the following two paragraphs, the author continued the discussion of the axiomatic system, “…We will see even from the perspective of practice that such abstraction is not to complicate, but to simplify matters…” He also mentioned other benefits of abstraction, including extending the application areas and accelerating the invention of technical program. 

The author talked very generally and abstractly in the introduction of the linear space. Though I only understand part of it, I find the author tried to persuade the reader the reason why we need construction of an abstract conception while in corresponding place of Chinese textbooks I only find a few sentences to overview what we have learned before and then the sudden display of a very long definition of linear space. (first part of this subsection)

In fact, (the author said) “historically the axiom did not appear until the end of the development of linear algebra in the 19th century.” But for modern learners, the sequence is inverse ---We must master the abstract theories first and then use them to solve practical problems. However, I feel the two are split up in Chinese textbooks, which often go from abstraction to abstraction, and sometimes it even contained not any word explaining the necessity of introducing a concept or a theorem.

Because of the vital importance of the concept of linear space, their definition is almost same in either Chinese textbooks or foreign language textbooks. (second part of subsection) But then the Chinese textbooks immediately provide (sometimes) up to 10 examples of linear space, while in G-l t, the author explained elaborately about the nonempty set and two operations (addition and scalar-multiplication) (total seven paragraphs, third part of this subsection).

Then he gave five examples of linear space, four of which came from the previous chapter and the fifth of which comes from mathematical analysis (function addition and scalar-multiplication) (fourth part of this subsection). But before doing that, he explained the necessity of familiarity with examples: “Who will deduce something from the definition of the vector space will be discouraged by the obstacles mentioned above. We can not rely entirely on the logic, as intuition, feeling for something and a well taste also play an important role for the orientation and order inside a theory in mathematics. One can get such necessary insight with the help of examples…”

In the fifth part of G-l t, the author gave some remarks on the previous given examples. The most interesting part is as follows: “The pragmatist holds such view, that an axiomatic system is only an attempt, a clear way of speaking and expression of algorithm for observation that people have made on different methods of solving problems, (attempt) to find and spare extra work, by way that people can develop general calculation for all problems. Thereby he would certainly not find out the full meaning of the definition. In the definition also exits a mathematical truth, which it is important, interesting and educational for mankind to understand, just as it is rewarding to understand the physical truth of atoms or the starry sky.”

Limited by my reading speed, I stopped at the fifth part. But the main criticism can already be stated. The first fundamental problem of Chinese textbooks is “Abstraction for nothing”, which I have already mentioned above. The second is loose structure, which in my mind is a profane to mathematics. The five parts of G-l t takes up 6 pages with clear processions while in the Chinese textbooks the corresponding contents are limited to no more than 2 pages. It does not consider the enumeration of properties related with linear space (0*x=0 etc.), which is special hobby shared by Chinese textbooks. How do Chinese textbooks deal with extra pages? Introduction of many advanced results and complex demonstration which made readers suffer more. Core conceptions are not stressed because difficult parts take up more pages. Maybe students learn linear algebra well not because he knew pretty well of the results of spectral decomposition theorem (which belongs to deep contents) but the linear equation-system theory, linear space and transformation (which is the basic contents and appeared earlier in almost every textbooks.) Actually we still master at them after these months and forget most parts of the deep contents. From the results there are few differences between college students and textbooks. But do we acknowledge them as an algorithm and summary or we appreciate as a theory and unity? We know the results very well, but we do not know how to strictly establish them and orderly apply them, which can never be achieved if we review linear algebra with the help of Chinese textbooks.
But at least two tough questions arise from my realization. We know the importance of progress little by little. Is it proper to read well-constructed foreign language textbooks first, which rely more on logic than “illusions”? As a student from mathematics, the answer should be “yes” if the objective conditions (such as language skills, allowable books from library and good reading environment etc.) are satisfied? But for students with other major background, it is subtle. If one can not be deeper in science, the most “right” world view at present stage, it is hard to imagine him to be deep in other shallow things. 

Another tough question came from limited time and wide branches of science. Even in my major, my considerations of reconstruction of analytic geometry and elementary number theory are very hard to be put into practice due to all kinds of study tasks, let alone reading non-major science books in other subjects such as yours. But whatever to say, calculus, linear algebra and general physics (for non-majors) stand always as fundamental part of modern science and are taught to every science or engineering students in every university. If we can squeeze time to look back something, then the three are always at top priority.            

Yours  

Free wind
