# Reaction to my scant reading of Iliad

Type your English name next time,

I have an unhealthy habit of typing essays deep into night. This time is of no exception, topics changing while core consciousness remains.
Of all my courses, the so-called Ancient European History contains absolutely the most water in normal THU students’ eyes. As an open course towards all the undergraduate students from different departments, the lecturer was very generous to attendees, “you can either come here to get related knowledge by listening to me or read related history books instead of attendance.”

I think my above description is useless to write down since it is of informative message. Most of such messages are submerged in the history. The more we date back farther, the more they are submerged, so that we only have the sketches of the “Prehistory” by the archeology relics. In this sense, the ancient history is useless to make acquaintance of since they are so primitive, so less-developed in modern eyes. But as “we (modern people) live in a powerful political systems and solve personal economic problems”, cultural prosperity and historical popularity are very natural things.”(quoted from a mathematical professor) If I should add a little, it goes that when the conditions for such popularity went worse, it soon became cold and freezing.

Anyway, THU provided us with the possibility to make such acquaintance as deeply as we want if we think several major or limited courses points lower are worthwhile costs (it is only a possible consequence, while some study masters in my department don’t bear such risks). As you can remember, many of our classmates in Listening I answered to the question of their funniest mistakes that they once equated Chinese transliteration to English pronunciation. This relates unavoidable problems of using foreign language, which I think is very frequently met at learning foreign history or literature. I can still remember of my bewilderment at the Western Literature Selected Reading class when the professor made lists of such proper nouns because of my inability of linking them to Chinese transliteration especially at (Translated) Russian Literature (not considering of my poor listening skills). 
I am sorry to type something unsolvable. But even so, such problems have little to do with the contents. For example, in physics or mathematics customs, we always write alphabetical names which we pronounce its Chinese transliteration.

Honestly speaking, I hadn’t intended to talk about transliteration, but my reading reaction to Iliad, written by the greatest Greek poet, Homer. Before I said my opinions, I made a list of different opinions I had heard so far.

A fundamental question pointed out again by 刘博远, “Why we put so much efforts at learning Western European language? Is it not due to their advanced political and scientific systems? Without those foundations, you can never reckon on your language to dominate the world, you can never expect your language to become the most beautiful language in the world!”

A similar argument was given by a study master of my department, he wrote to me,” I think as for imagination, completion and abundance, the Indian myth achieved at least the same height as the Greek tale. Nevertheless, people rarely know the Indian Gods, contrasted to Zeus, Apollo and Poseidon. The reason is obvious that the Greek myth is the source of the poem, drama, even the whole literature in western world and the western world dominate the globe even today…” (He read much about myths of Greek and Indian at September before the new semester. This is his original writing and I dare not to change a word.)     
The third observation came from my Ancient European History lecturer, who made many paralleled comparison between East and West, who explained a predecessor of classical Greek language called Linear-b base on his proficiency in Greek and Latin language (he gives the Latin language course to undergraduate students at THU), who inspired me by saying, “As I had said in the last class, there was no textbooks for this course. But I recommend you to the Humanity Library K Region to find related materials which interests you to read. Probably there are already students who begin reading (his original Chinese word is “恶补”, which is too hard for me to find corresponding English word) Greek Mythology (myths), aren’t they?...”

As for my immediate concern about such problems, I gradually find there are few privileges for modern students to be proud of. Of course there are so many progresses, for example, we have sex-mixed education, which has very short history, while Marx can not see his beloved girlfriend Jenny every day in his college life (thus there was left collections of love poems written to Jenny by Marx).But our way of thinking didn’t make corresponding revolution. Virtue and bad behaviour mixed with each other, dominating 21st century is not so special and can not produce much more outstanding people than every golden age in history.

This should be the ending of this email since the following is concerning about my reading reactions to a few sentences of Iliad. I wondered why I typed this email to you, which partly expressed my attitude to literature (bonded with history). Anyway, I stop here.

Free wind

But in that sense, we can have sympathy with even literature nearly three thousand years ago. Can you imagine that in a military troop happens a discord between two generals because of a woman? This is a stale topic of TV series but is what is documented in Book 1 of Iliad. The contradiction was so intensifying that one general (Achilles) decided to quit the troop, so the another general (Agamemnon, having high status than the former) said, “Run away by all means if your heart drives you. I will not entreat you to stay here for my sake. There are others with me who will do me honour…(then he began to attack Achilles) To me you are the most hateful of all the kings whom the gods love. Forever quarrelling is dear to your heart, and wars and battles (are also dear to your heart); and if you are very strong indeed, that is a god’s gift…(then he threatened to take away Achilles’ prize (mistress), but I shall take the fair-cheeked Briseis, your prize, I myself going to your shelter, that you may learn well how much greater I am than you, and another man may shrink back from likening himself to me and contending against me.” Making literary comments on the lines of this epic poem is too hard for me. Instead, I had noticed two points.

Even in the military genre poem, “relationship” is still playing an important role, which is not totally literary imagination. It can be guessed such relationship is more about sex than about love. But I can not tell whether it is a technique to satirize the general. In Chinese, I learned a poem 《燕歌行》 written by 高适 in high school, which also mentioned such relationship, “战士军前半死生，美人帐下犹歌舞。” It’s hard to imagine such troops can win the war by reading such literary descriptions.

Another point is about the frequent mentioning of Gods, which are native to Greek and is not Jesus because Christianity has not been born at that time. The red sentence made me to think, is it of religion? In Chinese, we also have similar expressions, “天命之谓性”, which means What Heaven confers is called “nature.” (quoted translation). I think it is more of the explanation of origin of human wisdom and power given by ancient people, which still have great influence even today (though we have Darwin’s doctrine)…        
