# To Tiffney about Japan

Just now I watched by accident CCTV news and the reports of Japanese news was screening.

The media was in a definite position that Japan government, represented by Abe, was to blame for their rash visit to 靖國Shrine on such a sensitive time point (8 15 is The Memorial Day of 69 Year of the victory of anti-Japanese War) . I wondered at the spot communication between the reporter at Tokyo and the host at Beijing. The female reporter at Tokyo (she speaks understandable English) stressed that many Japanese people protested when Abe and other political leaders went to the Shrine. And even the Japanese emperor expressed his wish for peaceful relation.

To make the news more impressive, the history picture and videos during the eight-year war was used as much as possible. Nanjing Massacre and Shanghai Defense War were both mentioned. When I finished my eating, I heard the commenter said, “If Japan dares to play with fire, it was bound to be fired at first…”

In my view, contradiction between China and Japan is not a one or two day thing. One side blackens the other is a very common phenomenon. But as a Chinese citizen, it was hard to be neutral at such things related to national interest. If I can make a little analysis, it was but from my scant knowledge about Confucian Culture. I feel that most Chinese people tend to condescend to Japanese people, especially at places like my hometown, relatively closed to outside information except for the propaganda of Chinese news. Thus before I went to TsingHua University I did so---thinking lower of Japanese people. But soaking in the environment of our Uni, I nearly reverted my criteria of value totally. If we stand on the personal or worldwide position instead of the national(民族) standpoint, it was of no guilty of not thinking consistent with the Chinese official. I almost run my topic---the root of our prejudice towards Japan. I made contact with many expressions of the self-center view in ancient China. We call ourselves 華， and neighborhoods 夷. We call our motherland center country and give Japan an attribute—“small”. Our saint Mencius said “I only heard about educating the barbarians using our culture and I never heard about reforming our country using something from the barbarians.” By the deep influence of the perspective of Confucian, even common Chinese people thought it was a shame to “submit to” the barbarians. Thus the anti-Qing movement lasted for a long time even after the fall of South Ming Dynasty. For our “unfriendly” neighbor, who brought us with unpleasant events in our modern history, we have far more anger and less tolerance.

The Confucian perspective towards neighbors belongs to history and we should be on the alert to its “eruption”. In fact, I wondered what on devil several Japanese sides said, doubting the unilateral reports of CCTV news a lot. I think you have the advantage of knowing more comprehensively about these current issues by the “limited” Internet through another language channel, if you were a little interested at such thing.

I wish you could share something with me, if you did so.

Your free wind  
