# Quick sketch of my feelings towards our language disadvantage in 21st century

As English reading takes more and more percentage in our (science students) life, feelings about separation of vocal Chinese and written English can not be avoided. I mean you seldom write in Chinese unless necessary and you feel contradicted whether to read Chinese textbook or English. But you seldom speak English these days while imbued in the written English environment many hours every day.

This contradiction is never a problem for Chinese one and a half hundred years ago, when they centered and had great confidence on our own culture. But cruel reality gradually taught us Chinese that we are lagged almost at everything behind Westerners. Even now I feel we are more lacking of such confidence of our culture, science and especially for us science students---written Chinese language.

Do you think written Chinese language is proper for academic research or as a good choice of mathematical or physics language, as English does? This problem never occurs to me if I am not a little reluctant to read Chinese science books, thought for convenience it is unavoidable at present stage. One big hit comes from the nationalities of great mathematicians or physicians. What we learn now mainly comes from pre-modern science advancement in 18th or 19th  century, while some of these are products of 20th century like topology or quantum mechanics. But Chinese are actually too late began studying these two areas, especially on theory that they have very little chance to put their name on the history of science. Lagrange ,Gauss, or Bernoulli many pure European names you can think have great achievements in both mathematics and physics. But we only have 杨振宁 and 华罗庚, whose contributions are far too complex for undergraduates to understand.

Writing at such point, I can not help recalling the first speech given by consecutive of foreign language department to us about this time last year. “Academic English is of vital importance.” His meaning can not be mistook from the time that we found Baidu never give quick answer to our advanced questions, from the time that we found either Fernman or Zorich (Russia author of mathematical analysis) wrote far better than Chinese textbook writers and from the time that our English level is reached for us to read with little difficulty at language.

But such awareness can only make me feel far lagged behind---I omitted competitors beside—peers of English-speaking country. But I contain myself at such point complaining about all these great gap and think about positive aspects (if exists) and solutions.

## Quick Sketch of my feelings toward Chinese philosophy crisis in modern times

I had a quite long dialogue with a firm Marxist from Seeking Truth Association two days ago.

Maybe it made little sense to linger when I told him my decision of quitting the association and my distrust of Communism. But actually the dialogue prolonged and we both declared respective positions. 
Tonight I reread parts of a work by Frederick Engel written about science socialism based on dialectics and materialism. All the two parts relate to the natural science development of that time. I didn’t want to mention Engel’s critics of Hegel’s philosophy but one of his conclusion of natural science---nature’s process is dialectical and not metaphysical and natural science proves the incorrectness of previous German idealism. I want to take Chinese Confucianism, which is my ideology tendency now, to explain my understanding and contradictions within. It is obvious that natural science cosmology and traditional Confucianism’s contradicted each other. For example, what’s the difference between man and animal? The latter answered that there is little difference expect for the benevolent heart of man. You can answer this simple but fundamental question for the former school. But the key mortal point is that the Confucian human behavior requirement, relative to the operation of celestial world, (人道 天道) is based on the cosmology of Confucianism, embodied extensively by The Book of Changes (《易经》,朱熹说，“学易以明乎吉凶消长之理，进退存亡之道). Although I appreciate The Way of Saints and read The Analects every day, I suddenly find it might be absurd to pursue this ideology if the core of it is proved to be wrong. And I think science students are obviously apt to think in such a logical method.

To keep at a distance and see if we have advantage over Western Europe at theory constructions, I feel now only Confucianism can be mentioned if it were not denied by western science. If one had little interest at classical philosophical works of Confucianism the other important part at Twenty and Four Histories can never be neglected (they are all written under the Confucian historical views). I suddenly remember the first “culture and manner education lecture” I heard at TSU is given by a very old famous Chinese historian under the title “What we see from ancient Chinese history”. However, I can not remember any of his words now expect for his cultural confidence.

You may find I write this email in such an unorganized style and wrote many run-on sentences. But I hope you can get through my ideas and contradictions. If you feel angry of my pouring down ideology you object, you can also make assault on me based on your rich knowledge of German philosophy.

Free wind             
