# Worldly?
2015/8/4

In ancient China, maybe study for imperial examination is a pretty worldly issue for high-spirited persons to talk about(like hermit) because it is targeted at worldly political status. The opposite word against worldly is elegant(adj),which often include writing poems or join literary ceremonies. 吴敬梓 Actually belongs to the latter though he probably intended not. In his novel The Scholars some figures are also attributed to such characters---out of the worldly trend.
For example, a figure(first appears from chapter eight) called 蘧駪夫, who is referred as belonging to  young distinguished type, often connects with imperial exam with extreme worldly business. On the contrast, his newly-wedded wife, 魯小姐，who is very concerned about the his husbands’ distraction from “proper occupation”, often interrogates him by questions of Confucian morale. 

It is interesting to watch the dramatic arrangement set by the author Wu in these several Chapters, which mainly narrate the social activities by the small groups of Qu. Because of their respect to distinguished figures regardless of their status, they are finally fiddled by a gang of scoundrels (?) who lazy their life away. After this poem and wine lifestyle, these distinguished figures represented by Qu lost their fun and turn back into “normal way”.  It seems that Wu gave reader a lesson that why not target at normal life trajectory at first since all those dissolute times are useless for the final achievement accepted by most common people?

During these chapters, wedding happens after funeral; party happens after visit; eating is evitable mentioned as long as whole day time. At this point we can peep into many classical elements embedded with different religions or ideologies.  In my view, this is a common property held by classical Chinese novels, which emphasizes on scene description. We can not see much into inner life of Qu, for example, because he almost appears with others in these chapters and talked like a type—not as an individual. This is criticized at the beginning of The Red Mansion, in which 曹夢沅 argues (in the name of a smart stone) that no diversity exists in those rustic history novels and they seem to be copied from a kind of template. In my view, individuality in Cao’s work is a translation of Chinese novel. If we recall the success of unique depiction of 翠翠 in Border Town of 沈從文，we can see this translation has been applied by liberal writing group around 1930s.

However, we can not over-criticize the Scholar by Wu, who, as an outsider of imperial systems, present a relatively complete picture of Middle or Late Ming Dynasty. In Marxian view, this is typical material to demonstrate the decline of feudal society, in which restrictions on people grow larger and evitably will explode itself. We can say much more about this aspect, which is called historical materialism (唯物史觀)。

Suppose 蘧 was born during the time of 朱元璋，how much possibility is there that he can live in such casual life even if his grandfather is a respected retired official? Main ideas lies in that the emergence and prosperity of such literary groups can not be due to personal tendency of elegant or worldly lifestyle, but the structure of social economic transformation. According to research based on these supposition, the turning point (in social economy and mood) of Ming Dynasty occurs during times of正德，in which people abandon their sparing habits and tend to pursue enjoyment, either in the form of literature or commercial entertainment or others. Nevertheless, the upper structure does not and can not adjust itself according to the development and change of the society. Thus the conflict between the “normal way” and profane requirement is more and more intense. On the surface it looks most literati crowd into the imperial exam, but the scant payment (like 范進的前半生) only demonstrate social basic contradiction can less and less be released by absorbing some people from lower class. As a member of feudal society, Wu sensitively perceived this contradiction and expressed it in the form a literature, which is only a derivative of movement of society. Of course he can not get rid of the limit of his class attribute and left many prints in his works (like depreciation of minor roles in society). His limit can not cover his bright point---right pointing out the reason and phenomenon of the rule that it is absolutely definite for feudal society to decay and downfall (more scientific analysis is finished by Marxian economic and social scholars).

Different from the material-oriented Marxian conception of history, the “absolute truth”-oriented Confucian conception of history provides another way to survey the same fact. The behaviour of Qu is definitely violation of 道，because he made no efforts to practice what the Great Learning says. Though he performs many rules of rites well, he can not be highly thought only because he lost his “大體”. On the contrast, his wife, Lu Lady is performing her duty well though her high literary manner is not encouraged in the conviction of Confucianism (because of duty distribution). Laymen (if the word violates you, forgive me. I only mean person who has different “world view”) might wonder at the strange behaviour of surveying outside world in the view of Confucianism and think it belongs to decaying sovereign class in feudal society, but philosophy can be inherited and developed is often neglected by them. In my knowledge bound, Confucianism in different times of Chinese ancient history is different. Especially we should take caution to distinguish between theory of朱熹(Chu Hsi) and Confucianism before Qi Dynasty.
   
Whatsoever, theory of Chu is an important implement for us to understand Ming Dynasty because it was used more or less as official ideology. In this meaning, using traditional Confucian conception to survey what Wu wrote in the Scholars maybe is more proper.

In conclusion, both worldly and elegant is an antagonism against sovereign classes, which are product of society movement (Marxism). We can also think that both worldly and elegant is an violation of absolute truth, in which the former is targeting at profits and neglecting Integrity (義、利), while the latter is out of the range of world view of Confucianism(儒家)(“異行”).    
