# A letter to XiaoMei
2013/8/13

As you said in your last letter, we can communicate almost everything
about English.

This morning I suddenly thought about one article I cherished a lot
during my Senior three.

But I almost forgot it completely in this summer vocation. It's The
fringe benefits of failure and the importance of imagination, a speech
delivered by J.K. Rowing at a commencement of Howard.

I cherished the speech draft a lot and listened to the tape many times
then. I felt a strength in it which is unique in all my English world.
I once read some paragraphs until some sentences echoed in my mind.

This morning I was listening to a tape of Obama in a tiring way. In the
tape, one student asked Obama “what does life mean to you?” Obama said
the answer was different in terms of his life stage.

I think generally the life can be divided in two stage. And Obama
answered the question as
follows: When I was a young man, I thought life was all about me......
But now, my life revolves around......

By comparison, I think in J.K. Rowing's speech, she also divided her
life in two stage. When she was young, success and failure are hot
topics; when she was over forty, she realized life was not composed of
achievement.

There is no specific reason for my mentioning the big topic of life. I
gradually find in this special summer, many once moving memories or
encouraging materials lost weight. I wasn't thrown in that tough
situation, so it's hard to generate enough passion for me to go forward.

A little depressed, all right. My many ideas changed unnoticeably. One thing
unique in this period for me, is that I will lie down sleeping when I
feel I can't sustain anymore. The sleeping time can't be long, so I will
set a phone clock before I indulge in a self-conscious state. Some
memory and thought came back to me and I can't explain explicitly.

In retrospect, I liked watching TV programs at young ages. By
combination of my active character, I sometimes jumped up and down on
the sofa as the plot of the series varied. In high excitement, I would
stand on the back plank of the sofa, leaning against the wall. Then I
walked to and fro on the “narrow passage”.

I had intended to write an article stating my comprehension about the
Chinese tradition and the advanced science products. Firstly in Chinese
and then translated it into English. But soon I realized there were too
much work to allow me to type one article in two languages. I have to
say this summer vacation has developed totally differently from what I
have intended. Many changed, both in mind and in action, but I think
there must be something that retained. It never changes along scientific
products updating and outworn knowledge disappearing. In this article,
I am going to give an amount of examples, some of which you may not be
familiar. All right, you can skip these examples.

Shall we celebrate for science product,
or maintain vigils for classical tradition?

"update" is a word frequently seeping into our life. Yesterday by
accident, I watched a TV program called Hope English, whose sponsor is a
company selling Good Memory Star. The product it sells now is far more
advanced than the one I bought when at six grade of primary school.

Several days ago I still used the outdated Good Memory Star to look up
words. One of the reason is that it contained a dictionary published by
Shanghai Translation Press. The main characteristic of this dictionary
lies in the amount of vocabulary, including many rare words. Sometimes
I met with words which I didn't get a pleasant meaning using the Oxford
7th, or I didn't find the word in this large paper-made lexicon, but I
solved my problems by using the electric edition of the New
English-Chinese Dictionary of Century. Half a year ago, I got an
acquaintance that this Century edition is fit for translators to
introduce works centuries ago in western world into China. In my
comprehension, English, like Chinese, changed a lot as time went on,
so it became very hard for readers of 21st century to read fluently
works centuries ago.

To solve the problem, in other words, to let us enjoy classical works,
scholars added notes and writers rewrote these works. At first, like
others, I degraded the latter manner, thinking they destroyed the beauty
of the original. As I can remember, my parents bought many rewritten
books (including 3 books of the four classical works in China) some
years ago. I want to refer to the excellent book "the dream of Red
Mansion". I once recognized a popular edition as whole in contents. But
I made one confirmation by comparing it with the part (fragrant
lotus[1]) extracted as text passage, belonging to the upper part of the
ninth grade Chinese book. Fragrant lotus made 3 poems in the 46th
chapter of the novel. But I only found the third poem in my popular
edition of this novel. Many passages were cut off in this edition. As
readers, we must anger at these cut-off. If one page of our new book is
left out or the type on it is not clear (due to print errors), we also
feel unpleasant. We concentrate our mind more on the tiny imperfect.
Depending on our decent Chinese level, we demand strongly on the whole
original works of these novels, not tolerant of cutting edition and
rewriting edition. But in fact, originals are still hard for us to
understand, especially in some aspects, such as rhyming prose and
obscure poems. If we only absorb important plots, what is the difference
between reading simplified and original, even watching TV series and
reading? We don't need to pretend that we pursue the smell of the
classical.

A few days ago I was reading The Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin, who
lived in the 18th century. The expression and some words, for me, are
strange, very difficult (in some passages) to understand, even combining
Chinese translation. I gradually thought it didn't pretend my poor
English. It's the distance of times. If I devoted much energy to learn
his time and his language (though it was English), I would have a better
comprehension. But one's life is strictly restrained. If reading
involves language not contents, it's study, not reading. It's knowledge,
not experience. So I draw a conclusion that I can read modern English
writers' biography (if existing) for the great scientist and writer
Franklin.

Language barrier is one point that can't be ignored in our reading
process. I think that's why I read “Who moved my cheese” more easily than
other classical or half-classical English works.

But it's normal to spot many strange things when we enter a different
world. I know many raw words in English literature is inevitable and I
must stride over this obstacle to enjoy not so old works.

[1]: in English editions I searched online, the names of characters are
    all Pinyin. I think it has no meaning in this language. So I
    interpreted XiangLing with fragrant lotus. This method is used also
    in The Moment in Peking.
