# 解决纠结问题
2013/10/3

Using this computer, I hope I can make documents of my life and my minds.

In fact, my mind is, to some extent, tortured by some trivial matters.

These include untouchable link with icy spirit (her letter to me and my letter to her were both unknown, at least I think this way); the high-tech inspiring trouble (the problem of being online and the half-worked Portable), the disturbance brought by my family(they came to Tsinghua University) and roommates sometimes.

It’s easy to be disappointed and agitated when I put these matters in mind, as I tend to do. But I want to live and study peacefully. What I am troubled is totally beyond I can anticipate one month ago (when I went there receiving military training).

Though I read the works of recently, it was so old and beyond my comprehension. In fact, my main problem lies in requiring perfect eternal equipment. I read a review of the monumental book “Silent Spring” which calls for using biological way to control pests instead of pesticides.

The author of the review asked a meaningful question, “if this way is to be effective enough to meet human needs, it must result in upsetting the balance of nature (causing other problems). Disadvantages came along with benefits." If I narrow my eyes only to the side of disadvantages, how can I put my main strength to learn my major and other more important( than coarse and shallow reality) courses well?

Saying three Chinese characters to end this diary of October 3 ,
放得下。
